[Back to GoldenBandra Home Page](http://www.goldenbandra.com/)

 

 

**My Dear Fellow [Bandra]{lang="EN-GB"}ites[,]{lang="EN-GB"}**

**[ ]{lang="EN-GB"}**

 

Over a 100 years ago, Bandra was the pride of Salsette. Today it is the
pride of every resident. It is the melting pot of activity and culture,
the hub of education and in more ways than one, a community force that
has proved beyond a question of doubt that we are a  powerful citizens
body. Our promenades, parks and protected open space are evidence of
this.

 

The word Bandra, immediately brings to mind 'community' ....the Bandra
Community. It is with pride, that we Bandraites can confidently state
that in our community there is absolutely no place for barriers of any
kind. Each one of us has worked hard to achieve this special environment
and we will continue working hard to maintain it....that is the culture
of Bandra.

 

To highlight this oneness in diversity of communities  residing in our
suburb and create a platform for all our talented Bandraites to showcase
their talent, we are celebrating Bandra in a 15 day festival between
November 15 and 30^th^. All our resident associations have come together
to consolidate their efforts for this celebration. On the anvil is a
music fest, theatre and literary events, heritage walks thru old
villages, sports, a food festival and much, much more.

 

**While we are in the process of getting corporate sponsors for the
festival I think it would be appropriate to create a slot for Bandraites
to contribute monetarily to their festival. Please make your
contribution as a well wisher and help us to make our festival a grand
success.**

 

The funds that we raise from our festival, after expenses, will be
distributed among the participating resident associations to use as they
see fit.

 

I am confident that with your assistance, our festival will be a beacon
towards communal harmony, that others will follow.

 

Thank you.

 

Sincerely

 

 

Patricia Nath

Co Convenor -- Celebrate Bandra
