[Back to GoldenBandra Home Page](http://www.goldenbandra.com/)

[![](../CelebAppeal.gif){border="0" width="150"
height="150"}](Appeal.htm) ![](FestOfBandraVisualBig.gif){border="0"
align="left" width="730" height="350"}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

**[Coming together in Bandra, this November]{lang="EN-GB"}**

**[ ]{lang="EN-GB"}**

[Bandra has some of the most active citizens' organisations and, what's
more, two have put up promenades themselves and now a third, along the
sea link with Worli, is running its waterfront with the Maharashtra
State Road Development Corporation. ]{lang="EN-GB"}

[Several residents have thought of holding a festival which highlights
the cultural diversity of communities living in Bandra as well as the
achievements of its citizens -- prominent and otherwise \-- in films,
music, literature, sports and, not least, conservation of urban
heritage. It is all coming together between November 15 and 30 this
year.]{lang="EN-GB"}

[It's probably the first time that any area of Mumbai has chosen to
showcase its "wares" in such an exciting manner. The "Celebrate Bandra"
festival will emphasise the enormous wealth of culture through a series
of major and smaller events. The idea is to portray the diversity among
communities which reside in this suburb, even while they all come
together as citizens. Bandra has its very distinctive character and can
serve as model for communal harmony.]{lang="EN-GB"}

[On the anvil is a music fest, which will feature artistes living in
Bandra, theatre and literary events, heritage walks through the old
villages, sports fixtures, a food festival on the grounds of Bandra
Gymkhana and much more.]{lang="EN-GB"}

[The venues will include the three promenades -- on Carter Road,
Bandstand and Bandra Reclamation -- along with public gardens, schools
and colleges, community halls and street corners. Alongside the ruins of
the Portuguese fort at Bandstand, citizens have just constructed a
400-seat amphitheatre, part of  MP Shabana Azmi's contribution to this
suburb. ]{lang="EN-GB"}

[Coincidentally, the Italian Chamber of Commerce is holding a "Festa
Italiana" to underline the regional diversity of that country along the
Carter Road promenade throughout November. ]{lang="EN-GB"}

[The *Indian Architect & Builder* magazine is sponsoring a Waterfront
festival during the fortnight, which will include exhibitions and
discussions on various heritage and related issues, along with other
cultural activities.]{lang="EN-GB"}

["Celebrate Bandra" is being professionally managed as an event and is
by no means a one-off festival. While the Bandra West Residents
Association is taking the lead in coordinating the entire fortnight --
which will hopefully extend to a month next year -- there will be other
events which will spill over into subsequent months. All residents'
associations, Advanced Local Management groups, cultural and educational
institutions and citizens themselves will be encouraged to participate.
]{lang="EN-GB"}

[The event is being kicked off with a competition, open to Bandrakars in
particular but graphic artists in general, to design a logo for
"Celebrate Bandra", the winner of which will be awarded Rs 5,000.
Contact Sushil Anand at <novaudio@vsnl.com> for details. See you in
November!]{lang="EN-GB"}

[ ]{lang="EN-GB"}

[Darryl D'Monte is President of the Bandra West Residents'
Association.]{lang="EN-GB"}

 
