---
title: "Mrs Fay Pereira: An 'asli Vandrekar'"
authored: 200x
---

As we 'celebrate Bandra' it is appropriate that we focus on an asli Vandrekar -
Mrs Fay Pereira of Ranwar.

'Flavy' to her family, and 'Fay' to her friends, she has been a part of the
Bandra landscape for more than nine decades.

It was in Bandra that her ancestors, sons and daughters of the fertile soil,
embraced Christianity over four centuries ago. Displayed in her home is her
family tree (the Fonsecas) and that of her late husband, Ansey Pereira, spanning
the centuries. It is a chronicled family tree, with roots going back to the year
1682, not only with names but other details too.

Countries, cities, towns and eras even, often become associated with specific
personalities. People who epitomize an essential spirit, people who by their
dominating presence leave their enduring stamp. For the quaint old village of
Ranwar, a motley collection of tiled cottages and bungalows, bound together by
community, several narrow gullies and a winding 'main street', this person is
without doubt Mrs Fay Pereira. Ramrod straight, even today, she is the persona
of the neighbourhood, respected and loved by all who know her.

In 1975 on the occasion of the International Women's Year, when Mrs Fay Pereira
was featured, along with several other women from all over India, by the Canara
Bank she was described as ' a housewife and a businesswoman. A storm on two
legs, she has organised the housewives of Bandra under the 'All Bandra Women's
Association'.

These and other complimentary terms of admiration and endearment have been
naturally bestowed on one of Bandra's more remarkable residents. And she accepts
them all with characteristic aplomb. When she asked why she had been chosen by
the Canara Bank for that special honour she was told it was partly because she
used to walk into the bank premises with such a regal air of ownership.

At 95 today, she is if anything, more regal, - the Andrean Notes tribute called
her the Duchess of Ranwar - only a little less energetic and adventurous than
she used to be many decades ago when she rode a 350 cc BMW in Rajan village
where she grew up. She married Ansey Pereira, and moved to Ranwar in 1936, and
quickly settled down in her new home. Down the years, Aunty Flavy, as she is
fondly known to all the residents of Ranwar, has been aunt, friend, good
neighbour and confidant, literally generation after generation. When her husband
died, in 1963, she was left with the daunting task of bringing up two young
sons. With little hesitation she took over the printing business owned by her
husband and to no one's surprise, kept it successful and indeed thriving. While
doing that she also brought up her sons to be the fine men they are today.
Wallace has a Master's degree in English and Fr Larry is today the Parish Priest
of Mt Carmel Church, Bandra and a member of many Archdiocesan Councils and
Commissions.

One of the many distinguishing features of Fay Pereira is her willingness to
wade into difficult situations if she perceives a wrong to be righted or an
unfortunate to be helped. She has fought illegal construction activity time and
again, and every Ward Officer in the Bandra BMC will give proof of her
commitment and determination - and often of her terse wit. She once told the
Deputy Controller of Rationing, that even her dog refused to eat the rice
distributed by the PDS !

In Ranwar, Fay has been literally at the centre of community activities for
decades. Besides playing an active part in her Church she has also led the
community, and spearheaded countless civic initiatives and campaigns. Even
today, despite her loud voice and pretense of being a tough customer, she is an
easy touch for anyone who is in need of a meal or a handout.

Her beautiful cottage, 'The Trellis', always well kept, has been her pride for
decades. There is rarely a month when she is not involved in some improvement,
repair or maintenance job in her home. Her age is of little consequence and last
month she completed the renovation of her kitchen - and insisted on going to
Khar by herself to check out the various types of granite available. This year
too, as has been her practice every year, she supervised the roasting and
grinding of the 22 ingredients that are blended carefully to give us that
special East Indian bottle masala !

As we review her life, we are amazed at her versatility and dexterity. She has
acted in theatrical productions in the parish Zonal Contests and sung in the
church choir. She has stitched her own clothes and is an excellent cook and
sweetmaker. She has typed endless pages on her trusted manual Remington while
running her business and crusading in civic matters.

She has travelled extensively, in India and abroad, moved gracefully across
dance floors, swam confidently in the sea and cycled briskly along Bandra's
lanes

Endowed with a retentive memory, Mrs Pereira can remember events, places and
persons connected with each decade of the preceding century. While she vividly
recalls the splendour of Fort, Bombay, she relives the charms of Bandra.

Even while she peeps into the past, she is firmly grounded in the present. She
still participates in programmes and picnics and meet relatives, neighbours and
friends. She still makes time each day for a thorough reading of her newspaper
and watches her favourite TV programs.

But it is her verbal pictures of Bandra that are delightful. Her palette paints
a picture of lush green rice fields and mango groves, vegetable gardens and
coconut fringed shorelines with extensive mangroves. Rambling bungalows and
charming cottages, quaint street lights and sturdy wayside crosses, horse riding
gentlemen and cycling ladies.

This is the stuff of which memories are made, and with these memories Mrs Fay
Pereira 'celebrates Bandra'.


