---
title: Lines on the East Indian Community Today
author: Herman Rodrigues, Denis Rodrigues
---

# The present position of the community, their origins and the adoption of their name

The East Indians today can broadly be viewed in two groups. A large proportion
are 'urbanised', living in localities situated between Mumbai and Vasai. Most of
these localities are the original villages where the East Indians resided as
well as adjacent areas. Another significant group of East Indians today lives in
a less urban environment in places like Chaul, Korlai, and north, up to Dahanu,
though even including places like Uttan and Gorai. The residents here have had
fewer educational and other advantages available, compared with their
urban-based counterparts, that would have enabled them to advance.

As a society becomes more cosmopolitan demographic identities merge. The
integrity of nations, tribes societies and communities is dependent on
insularity. Once travel and communication become easier cultural and ethnic
mixing results. This is an inevitable process. What is today a recognizable
community may in a few generations be irreversibly dispersed. So too with
communities like the East Indians. Besides, this small group of people had
coalesced into a community a little more than a century ago, in response to
specific common needs and pressures. The situation today is different.

# Some historical background

The group of people calling themselves East Indians share some common features,
geographically, historically and culturally. They are the descendents of the
original inhabitants of the regions that were ruled at different times by the
Maharattas, Portuguese and British. The territories extended from Dahanu in the
north to Chaul and Korlai in Ratnagiri in the south.

These people in 'Northern' territories were distinct from Goa both politically
and culturally. Their forests and quarries provided much of the timber and
basalt stone used to build up Goa. Agriculturally too the region was very
prosperous and provided valuable revenue. The influence of the Portuguese church
authorities was much less in these areas than it was in Goa. Hence the people
essentially retained their cultural heritage in matters of food, dress, marriage
customs, language etc. These were very similar to their Hindu forebears and
neighbours. Which is a point made by East Indians today who are the 'asli
Mumbaikars' with a rich heritage that goes back centuries.

With the coming of the Portuguese from the 16th century there were major changes
that took place. The area was divided into 'Aldeas' with landlords appointed by
the Portuguese crown. For instance Aldemar, a name still in use in the area,
meaning 'Aldea-by-the-sea'.

It was the custom to award land for limited periods to military officers who had
distinguished themselves in the service of the King. Thus Bandra was granted in
the 16th century to Antonio Pessoa, who had fought with valour in Diu and
Bassein. After his death it passed on to his widow. Following her death Bandra
was given to the Jesuits. By the early 1600s Bandra was almost entirely
Christian.

In those days the people in the region were prosperous and the standard of
living was good. Fr Gomes Vaz, writing in 1576 says: "Bandra is a very fine
Village". " This island is very fruitful and the land is very fresh. The island
is called Salsette as the land of Goa with a difference that the latter is not
an island", referring to the Salcette of Goa. And an English visitor, John Fryer
who visited Bandra in 1673-75 writes: " The town is large and houses tiled; it
is called Bandura... In the middle of the river we had a pleasant prospect on
both sides; on Bandura side, the College, the town, the Church of St Andrew a
mile beyond, and upon the hill that pointed to the sea, and Aguada, block-house,
and a Church; on the other side the Church of Mahim, and other handsome
buildings". And writing about Salsette Island, "the ground excellently fertile
either of itself or by the care of the Inhabitants, that it yields as good
Cabbages, Coleworts, and better Rhadishes than ever I yet saw: Besides Garden -
Fruit, here are incomparable Water-Melons, and Onions as sweet, and as well
tasted as an Apple; and for the natural growth of the Soil, it is known not only
to supply the adjoining Islands, but Goa also. It is more than 20 Miles in
Length and 70 in Circumference".

Through the years the region was governed by the Marathas, Portuguese and the
British and the community adjusted to the various changes. Even after the
Maratha conquests around 1739 the Christians in the region were allowed some
freedom to practise their Faith. Many priests had to leave the area. Over time
some communities dwindled or disappeared, for instance Magthane and Kondita.
Others continued with local priests and people taking the lead. Many parishes
and communities developed a certain 'independence' therefore. There were local
confraternities with a sense of ownership over churches or traditional
celebrations and rites that were in constant tussles with parish priests and
church authorities.

With the coming of the British there were significant added influences on the
community.

# The adoption of the name

The name, East Indian was adopted in 1887, the year of the Golden Jubilee of
Queen Victoria who ruled India at the time. In that year the leaders of the
community held three public meetings, in Mazagaon, Andheri and Papdy, Bassein in
order to convince the people that they needed to band together for the general
good. This led to the formation of the 'Bombay East Indian Association' and the
adoption of the name 'East Indian'. There has been speculation about the
specific reason for choosing the name 'East Indian'.

There were various reasons and pressures that led to the adoption of this name,
among them were the desire to identify themselves as descendants of the original
inhabitants of the region who were loyal British subjects.

Another reason was that the community wished to identify itself as distinct from
the many other Christian immigrants with similar surnames who were increasingly
coming into Bombay and coming into competition with the community for jobs and
employment. These other Christians were chiefly from Goa, Mangalore etc.

# Loyal subjects

One of the first actions was the formation of the Bombay East Indian Association
and the adoption of the name East Indian. Certainly part of their objective was
to identify themselves as loyal British subjects. The Portuguese were seen as
being mainly interested in seeking 'spices, silver and souls' and not being very
concerned about the education and advancement of their colonial subjects. Prior
to this the East Indians were referred to as Portuguese Christians, Native
Christians, Native Portuguese, Norteiros - this referring to their geographic
location north of Goa, and Portuguese Roman Catholic British subjects and these
terms were not acceptable hence the change of name.

# Differentiation from other peoples

Starting from the early decades of the 19th century the economic success of the
British in India resulted in the trickle of immigrants from Goa to Bombay
becoming a flood. There were also influxes from other regions like Mangalore
etc. In 1780 the population of Bombay was around 100,000. In the 1850's this
number had increased to 500,000. As conditions in Goa deteriorated further the
flow of immigrants increased greatly. This was facilitated by the improvements
in transport and communication by coastal ferry steamers and the establishment
of the railway system. This resulted in more pressures on the indigenous
Christians.

# The Padroado - Propaganda issue

A condition existing at the time that had great relevance to the lives of the
people was the Padroado jurisdiction whereby the Portuguese controlled the
churches in the area, not including Bombay Island, where the churches were under
the control of the Propaganda Fide, in Rome. The kings of Portugal were invested
by the Popes in the 15th and 16th centuries, with the right of Patronage called
Padroado. This allowed the Portuguese complete control over churches and church
affairs in all their territories and in India even in areas that were later
governed by the British. The Portuguese were seen as regarding their churches as
generators of money to be sent back to Portugal. Beyond this they had little
desire to develop the areas and neglected the education and growth of the
population. By the 17th century, Rome felt that Padroado was not doing enough
for the conversion of the native population under their control and so it set up
the Congregation of Propaganda Fide in 1622. From that time onwards Propaganda
missionaries were sent to India. Later, in 1720, Portuguese-born priests were
expelled from Bombay by the British and the churches of Bombay were entrusted to
the Propaganda Apostolate. The difference between the Padroado areas and the
Propaganda areas in Bombay, where there were many more educational institutions
and the people had many more opportunities for education, employment and
advancement and hence were more prosperous, was evident. To add to this, the
clergy in the Padroado churches, appointed from Goa, naturally favoured Goan
immigrants in the parishes and this aggravated the original inhabitants who felt
discriminated against. In Bandra the Padroado Propaganda split resulted in a
situation where St Andrew's and later Mount Carmel were Padroado churches owing
allegiance to Portugal and St Peter's was administered by the Propaganda Fide in
Rome. People were allowed to choose their parish regardless of geographical
logic so that a family residing by the side of St Andrew's could be parishioners
of St Peter's and would have their marriages and burials there instead on at the
neighbouring St Andrew's. In Propaganda churches and schools English education
was the norm, e.g.., St Xavier's In Bombay and St Stanislaus' in Bandra while
Portuguese was the language preferred in Padroado schools like St Andrew's.

In an effort to resolve this situation, where the community found itself at a
disadvantage there were many protests and representations made. The quality of
the protest as judged from the extensive correspondence on file between East
Indian community local leaders and the ecclesiastical authorities in Rome and
the English authorities in London speaks of a highly educated cadre of East
Indian leaders.

In 1887 when the name was adopted there was a feeling of being discriminated
against that was to a significant extent due to the fact that much of the clergy
were from Goa, owing allegiance to the Padroado faction. Thus they were seen as
favouring Goan immigrants to the Bombay area to the detriment of the indigenous
people.

Ultimately an agreement in 1928 put an end to the right of patronage outside of
Portuguese territories in India and amalgamated all the churches under the
archdioceses of Bombay. Before this amalgamation the Catholic archdiocese of
Bombay had 36360 souls in 1928 and to this was added 93,692 persons from the old
diocese of Damaun. Secular priests increased by almost 300% to a total of 125.
With regard to schools the Propaganda diocese had 109 schools before the
agreement to which the Padroado added 58 more.

---

> TODO: The content below may be an older draft of the above

The East Indian Community

Herman Rodrigues and Denis Rodrigues

The present position of the community, origins and the adoption of their name

The East Indians today can broadly be viewed in two groups. The majority of them
are 'urbanised', living in localities situated between Mumbai and Vasai. Most of
these localitles are the original villages where the East Indians resided as
well as adjacent areas.

Another, significant group of East Indians today live in a less urban
environment in places like Chaul, Korlai, and north up to Dahanu, though even
including places like Uttan and Gorai. The residents here have had fewer
educational and other advantages, available compared with their urban-based
counterparts, that would have enabled them to advance.

Some historical background

The group of people calling themselves East Indians share some common features,
geographically, historically and culturally. They are the descendents of the
original inhabitants of the regions that were ruled at various times by the
Marathas, Portuguese and British. The territories extended from Dahanu in the
North to Chaul and Korlai in Raigad District to the south.

These people and the 'Northern' territories were distinct from Goa both
politically and culturally. Their forests and quarries provided much of the
timber and basalt stone used to build up Goa. Agriculturally too the region was
very prosperous and provided valuable revenue. The influence of the Portuguese
church authorities was much less in these areas than it was in Goa. Hence the
people essentially retained their cultural heritage in matters of dress,
marriage customs, language etc. These were very similar to their Hindu forebears
and neighbours. Which is a point made by East Indians today who are the 'asli
Mumbaikars' with a rich heritage that goes back centuries.

With the coming of the Portuguese from the 16th century there were major changes
that took place. The area was divided into 'Aldeas' with landlords appointed by
the Portuguese crown. For instance Aldemar, Aldea-by-the-sea, a name still used
in the area.

Land was awarded to military officers who had distinguished themselves in the
service of the King. Thus Bandra was granted in the 16th century to Antonio
Pessoa, who had fought with valour in Diu and Bassein. After his death it passed
on to his widow. After her death Bandra was given to the Jesuits. By the early
1600s Bandra was almost entirely Christian. In those days the people in the
region were prosperous and the standard of living was good. Fr Gomes Vaz,
writing in 1576 says:

"Bandra is a very fine Village". " This island is very fruitful and the land is
very fresh. The island is called Salsette as the land of Goa with a difference
that the latter is not an island", referring to the Salcette of Goa. And an
English visitor, John Fryer who visited Bandra in 1673-75 writes: " The town is
large and houses tiled; it is called Bandura..." And this about the island of
Salsette, "the ground excellently fertile either of itself or by the care of the
Inhabitants, that it yields as good Cabbages, Coleworts, and better

Rhadishes than ever I yet saw: Besides Garden - Fruit, here are incomparable
Water-Melons, and Onions as sweet, and as well tasted as an Apple; and for the
natural growth of the Soil, it is known not only to supply the adjoining
Islands, but Goa also. It is more than 20 Miles in Length and 70 in
Circumference".

After the conquest by the Marathas in 1739 , the area and people who would later
call themselves East Indians had to face some hard times. Though they were
allowed some freedom to practise their Faith, most of the priests had to leave.
Over time some communities dwindled or disappeared, for instance Magthane and
Kondita. Others continued with local priests and people taking the lead. Many
parishes and communities developed a certain 'independence' therefore. And this
later translated into the local confraternities who both felt and exercised a
great deal of responsibility and authority in the traditional celebrations and
rites which resulted in numerous tussles with parish priests and church
authorities.

Economically too, the area suffered badly and by the time the British took over
in 1774 much of the land was no longer cultivated and had reverted to
wilderness.

With the coming of the British there were significant added influences on the
community. The British did more than the Portuguese to develop the region and
promoted commerce. It soon became a vital advantage to be educated and fluent in
English in order to advance professionally as well as socially.

The adoption of the name

The community formally adopted the name East Indian in 1887 , in response to a
perceived need to identify themselves as the descendants of the original
inhabitants of the region and as a strategy in local religious politics, but
which also had socio-cultural and political overtones. The issue was whether the
local churches should be administered by the Church authorities in Goa or
directly from Rome . And this struggle had a history going back to the time of
the East India Company when the British first took over the area from the
Marathas and even before that in the Island of Bombay.

In the Portuguese times, the Christians in the area were under the authority of
the Church in Goa. But after the Marathas conquered the land, this was no longer
possible and the religious needs were met through the church in Bombay which was
quite independent of the authorities in Goa . After the British took over, they
were initially wary of the Portuguese political ambitions and therefore didn't
allow them any religious jurisdiction in the area. But by 1786, when relations
between England and Portugal improved, the Portuguese asked that they be allowed
to once again regain control of the local churches. This in turn led to a
division in the local Christian community with some wanting " to revert back to
the jurisdiction of Goa and other vehmenetly opposed to this. In 1790 the
decision was taken by the local English authorities to give Goa full
jurisdiction but a group appealed against the decision to the East India Court
of Directors in London who stayed the order. It was at this time, that the
dissidents no longer accepted the name of "Portuguese Christians' and put their
hopes in the East India Company to sever the old links with Goa. Eventually
there was a compromise and a religious Double Jurisdiction was put into place
which lasted for almost another hundred years.

The struggle however continued and even intensified and one of the main issues
was that of education. The areas under British control had English schools and
generally were much more progressive than those under Portuguese influence and
things came to a head in 1887. In that year the leaders of the community held
three public meetings, in Mazagaon, Andheri and Papdy, Bassein in order to
convince the people that they needed to band together for the general good. One
of the first actions was the formation of the Bombay East Indian Association and
the formal adoption of the name East Indian. And to proclaim this more
effectively a Newspaper, the Bombay East Indian, was started, which incidentally
is still published as a monthly journal.

The quality of the protest, starting from the late 1800s to the 1920s, as judged
from the correspondence on file between East Indian community local leaders and
the ecclestiacal authorities in Rome and the English authorities in London
speaks of a highly educated cadre of East Indian leaders and it is seems very
probable that they were aware of the early history of the struggle for
'religious independence' and hence took the name of East Indian as a symbol of
their first era of freedom !.

East Indians today

The average East Indian today in general may no longer be aware of the origins
of the name and perhaps is not very concerned about it either. As a society
becomes more cosmopolitan demographic identities merge. The integrity of
nations, tribes societies and communities is dependent on insularity. Once
travel and communication become easier cultural and ethnic mixing results. This
is an inevitable process. What is today a recognizable community may in a few
generations be irreversibly dispersed. So too with communities like the East
Indians and the other Christian communities in particular and the population in
general. Today the Christian community is so homogeneous that it is difficult to
distinguish one ethnic group from an other. And this is a process that will
continue. The value of communities like the East Indians of western India will
perhaps be in the legacy of historical, religious and sociological detail that
they leave behind.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lines on the EI Community today ...

Rice was the staple food of the community and is grown throughout the region. A
large part of the year was spent in activities centred around the cultivation of
rice.

Preparations of the fields usually start well before the rains. The earthen
mounds, or baandhs, around the paddy fileds, that serve to retain the rain water
are repaired using clods of mud dug from alongside the fields.The nursery is
generally a small plot on a higher part of the land. Here the seedlings are
raised. Approximately 3-4 weeks later the seedlings are uprooted and
transplanted. As the plants grow and flower, the standing water is reduced and
towards the end a few heavy showers at the time the grain is ripening, ensures a
good harvest.

The threshed rice is winnowed by pouring it from a supra, a shallow tray made of
thin bamboo slats, on a windy day. The collected grain is then stored in huge
earthen jars in the veranda or on the loft. The paddy is dehusked either by
using a grinding stone or in the local village rice mill.

Aguera - Thanksgiving for a good harvest

This is the ceremony that takes place before the harvest - it is a ritual
blessing of the standing, ripened paddy. Though often done in the church
nowadays, it used to involve a formal procession, sometimes carrying a statue of
Our Lady on a palinquin to the fields. Symbolic sheaves of paddy are cut and
placed at the base of the statue as an offering.

The harvest festival is celebrated by Salsette Christians. Other groups have a
few stalks blessed by a priest and these are often seen tied above the main
entrance doors of the houses.

The origin of the term Aguera is uncertain but thought to derive from fogueira
the old Portuguese word for a bonfire, which was burned around this time using
the winnowed sheaves.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



