---
title: Woodstock Letters
period: 1916
abstract: |
     This is the complete material from the Jesuit "Woodstock Letters" author
     Fr. Herbert Parker, of St Stanislaus'.
     [Woodstock Letters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodstock_Letters)
     is a publication written by Jesuits around the world describing
     institutions, customs and places in which they were situated.
     Talks about St Stanislaus, St Joseph's Convent, Bandra Misc, Bombay ..., Monsoons, Dress, Parsees,
     The Bandra Fair, Khandala, St Stanislaus Again, Funerals and Weddings in Bandra ... Holy Week in Bandra
     as in the year 1916.
period: 1916-1917
---

By Herbert J. Parker SJ
From visit to Athenaeum Library Pune,
in the Jesuit Archives
Jan 2006 DJR, CF, HJR

Scanned Source, from Jesuit Archives:
[Woodstock Letters, Volume XLV, Number 3, 1 October 1916](https://web.bc.edu/jsdc/jsl/wlet_19161001.pdf) Page 433 (Page 125 in PDF)


LETTERS FROM FATHER H, PARKER ST. STANISLAUS', BANDRA, August 22, 1916

---

DEAR FATHER EDITOR; P.C.

St Stanislaus

It would amuse you to see the latest reader of the LETTERS. He is a little black
boy, 13 years of age, and small for his years, his feet not touching the floor
as he sits, but with the voice of a man, and an expression in his reading that
would do credit to many a one older and long experienced in refectory efforts.

Our school is on Salsette Island, just north of Bombay Island. This is not the
island on which our martyrs, Blessed Rudolph Aqunviva and Companions suffered;
that is near the city of Goa. We are on the southern part of the island, in
Bandra, a little town that with the surrounding villages, numbers about 25,000
souls. Our school was originally an orphanage, like St. Mary's, Bombay, but now
it has the more dignified name of "Institution', though we still have some eighty
or ninety orphans. St. Mary's has almost as many, but ours are discalceated,
while those at St. Mary's are not, and would not like to be known as orphans

Of all our schools in the mission, we are the best off here as regards the
teaching staff, and we have next to the largest community. Before the war there
were some seven or eight German Fathers here, one or two scholastics and several
Brothers. Now we have a community of ten: five Jesuit Fathers, two Brothers and
three secular priests. Our superior is a Swiss, 76 years of age

For seventy-five years of his life he considered himself a German, but when the
order came to intern the German Fathers, previous to expatriation, or
repatriation, he had the matter looked into, and discovered that he was a Swiss
by birth. There are two Portuguese Fathers, who were working in the Madras
mission, and came here last September. They are hampered somewhat in their work
because of an imperfect knowledge of English. One young Jesuit Father is a
native of Singapore He also came last fall (speaking in American terms) with the
two Portuguese Fathers, and a native Brother. Another Brother, a Portuguese from
near Goa, came three months ago. The secular priests are a Eurasian, a native of
Agra, who teaches in the school, a young native of Bandra, who is the prefect of
the second division, and another native priest, of the vicinity, who is the
pastor of the native Christians. So you see we are a rather mosaic-like
community, but we all get along very well together, and have enough men for the
work. We have a number of efficient lay teachers, men and women, all of whom
have been here for years, and have teachers' certificates for good work done or
for successful examinations passed.

We have about 525 boys here. At one time, there were over 700, but we were
overcrowded then, and the Government Inspectors were not as strict as they are
now. About 300 of the boys are day scholars, and 220 boarders, of whom about 40
are in the 'first class', 60 in the second class, and the remainder are third
class boarders or orphans.

Fee Structure

It may be interesting to know our tuition and boarding rates, to compare them
with Holy Cross or Loyola School. I shall give you the items from our
prospectus:

Terms for first class boarders: Entrance fee Prep and first to fourth Standard,
2 rupees; \*fourth to sixth Standard (inclusive), 3 rupees. Boarding fee--monthly
18 rupees. School fee - Prep and first Standard, one rupee monthly; second and
third Standard, 1½ : rupees monthly; fourth and fifth Standard, 3 rupees
monthly; sixth Standard, 3 rupees monthly. Dhobie (laundry-man) and tailors, 1½
rupees, half-yearly.

Terms for second class boarders: 12 rupees per month. All other fees the same as
for first class boarders. Terms for third class boarders are not advertised;
they are from 8 rupees per month down. They eat with the orphans; the other
classes each have separate tables. The school fees for the day scholars are:
from 2 to 5 rupees monthly. Reductions are expected and frequently given. (\*A
rupee is about 32 cents).

You can readily imagine, from these rates, that the table-fare is not very
varied nor delicate; but it is substantial enough, and better than the boys are
accustomed to at home. For the orphans and third class boarders it consists
chiefly of rice and meat curry, with bread, coffee, and an occasional banana.
This is all they are used to, and "where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be
wise". To feed, clothe and lodge a boy for 8 rupees, or 2 dollars and 60 cents a
month, sounds rather strange to American ears, but it can be done here in India.
Of course, not much money is spent on shoes and other luxuries of life. The
scriptural principle, "Take up your bed and walk", is exemplified here daily.
Only a very few, even of the first class boarders, have mattresses; a pillow and
a blanket are sufficient for a good night's rest. No sheets are necessary, only
night trunks. We can get a good many more boys in a dormitory here than you can
in America. Thank goodness, we have no social uplifters here to pry into the
affairs of our institutions.

School matters

Our school is a primary and secondary school, taking boys up to, and through the
sixth standard, which is the same as our second year high school. We teach the
usual preparatory and high school matter, beginning Latin in the fourth
standard, and the boys do pretty well, although they are dreadfully stupid in
all practical matters, as Indians are generally. You tell them to do something,
giving them explicit instructions; they shake their heads in a peculiar way they
all have, and then go and do the wrong thing

The boys are very easy to manage; they are not much given to tricks, like
American boys, and deep-laid schemes are quite unheard of. Their bare legs are
very convenient for the use of the cane, which is very common. There is a very
good spirit between the boys and the teachers. There are about thirty-five
pagans, day scholars, who attend our school, Hindus, Mahometans and Parsees.
They keep their queer caps on in class, and also when they come into your room,
as this is a sign of respect. They are excused from religious instruction, and
no efforts are made to convert them. I may say here that this is one of the
secrets of the success of our German Fathers here, especially in the beginning
of the mission. When we took up the mission in the Bombay Presidency, Catholics
had a very poor standing. Education was the thing to begin with. Now, the
Catholic people could not support schools and colleges themselves, so we had to
invite all, Christian and non-Christian; and to get wealthy pagan parents to
send their children to our schools, we had to make them realize that there was
no fear of our endeavoring to convert them. Now the work has been done;
Catholics are respected, there is a good spirit between the natives and
ourselves generally, and our schools are the leading ones of their kind, and are
acknowledged as such. I am told that this is the same principle that is being
followed out in our new mission of Japan. On the way over, on the boat, I heard
from several gentlemen words of high praise of our colleges in Bombay; and the
same can be said of the schools of our other missions in other parts of India.

I think now it might be time for us to make some effort to win converts in our
schools, as well as in the missions. The Sisters are doing this, timidly, but
with a certain degree of success. The other day I baptized a Parsee girl of
fifteen, who was converted at the convent. Her two elder sisters were converted
before her, against the wish of their father. But they were of age, and remained
at the convent after their baptism.

The father very strongly opposed at first the last baptism, but finally he was
won around, and is now studying the catechism himself. To cite another instance,
a Mahometan gentleman, with whom I got rather intimate on the boat, brought his
nephew around to the school, and when I asked him if he were not afraid of our
making a convert of him, he said that he would rather see him a good Catholic
than a bad Mahometan.

I thanked him for the compliment. But he was really a good, pious man. He would
leave an exciting game of chess at sundown to go and say his prayers, and any
chess player knows what sincerity that requires.

Government aid

All our schools receive generous government aid. The government gives one-third
and in some cases one-half towards the erection of school buildings. A grant of
one-third is also given on school expenditure, a drawing grant is also given,
and there is a fixed annual grant up to 10000 rupees. St. Xavier's College and
High School get the largest possible grant; we get 7,945 rupees here. This
amount goes a great way in India.

The grant must not be more than one-third of the annual expenses of the school,
and in the list of annual expenses we count in the nominal salary of the
religious teachers, which is a high one. The Head master, e.g. is allowed 350
rupees monthly, and the other Jesuit fathers teaching, from 300-300 rupees. We
get a grant of eight rupees monthly for twenty Eurasian orphans, just about
enough to support them. St. Mary's gets a similar grant for about sixty.

There is an annual inspection of every school, and very exact and searching
accounts must be handed in from time to time. Our school year begins in June,
and we leave a month free in October and May, besides the Christmas and Easter
holidays.

So much for our school. We have also a Gujerati school in our parish for the
children of our sweepers and other servants. It would never do to have the
low-caste children in school with the others. The children are instructed there
in their own native dialects, Gujerati or Mahratti. There are no benches in the
school, as in the other native village schools; the children sit on the floor,
tailor-fashion, just as they do always in their own homes, even when they take
their meals. There are several village parish schools in Bandra, and several
government aided schools, but none of them can be compared with our own in any
respect.

St Joseph's

Across the street from us is the convent school of the "Daughters of the Cross",
a Belgian foundation, which has several schools and missions in India. They have
a Foundling Home in Bombay, where the "Sisters of Jesus and Mary" also have
several convent schools. Several German Sisters are interned here and in the
Foundling Home, and the superior of each place had to be changed, because they
were both Austrians. The alien Sisters of other Orders were deported

The convent is a very large and beautiful one. It took me just one hour to go
through it on Easter Sunday blessing the rooms, and the Sisters said that it was
done in good time. There are about 35 Sisters and 900 girls there. Over 300 are
orphans, some 200 other boarders, and the remainder are day students. It was a
novel sight at first to see the discalceated orphans coming up to communion.

The convent is a little parish in itself. But we have also, exclusive of the
boarders, a parish of about 1,000. It is the only part of Bandra under the
jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Bombay; all the rest, as also a good part of
Bombay, is under the Bishop of Damaun, the Portuguese Bishop. As you may know,
there are two jurisdictions here, the Portuguese or Padroado and the Propaganda,
and this causes an endless amount of trouble. You will find two or three
families in the same house under different jurisdictions; the married brother
and his family will be allowed to eat meat on Friday, and the married sister
will not. In many ways the bishop and vicars of the other jurisdiction are
stricter than our priests. We have the privilege of eating meat every day of the
year, Good Friday even not being excepted, because of the plague, which has been
prevalent in Bombay for the last twenty years, though not as bad as in some
other parts of India This concession is not granted to the other parishes here,
and you can imagine the difficulties in confession over this and other
questions, especially during Lent. The other parishes have their "Fabrica", or
board of trustees, who get their portion of all the church fees, hold most of
the money belonging to the parish, and hold up the pastor, I mean, hinder him,
when he wishes to make necessary improvements in the church or school. Then,
too, they are always fighting among themselves, and carry every little trouble
to the bishop.

Bandra misc

There are about 25,000 people in Bandra, of who one-third are Catholics. In
Bombay, about 12,000 are under our jurisdiction, and about 28,000 under the
other.

Our parish had a queer origin, but not an unusual one in this part of the world.
When the orphanage started, some sixty-five years back, several hundred people
broke off from St. Andrew's, the adjoining parish, and came to us. Later on, some
of our people got dissatisfied with our native pastor, seceded and started a new
parish.

They have a beautiful little church, dedicated to "Our Lady of Mt. Carmel", but
their parish did not thrive as much as ours did. Our church is the ground floor
of the orphanage, and is much too small for our people, but we have no money to
erect a new one. Only a few days ago, I saw an old faded letter of the
Archbishop, dated, I think, 1869, making an appeal for funds for a new church.
As we are always saying now, we'll have to wait till after the war.

There are many Goanese Catholics in all parts of the Bombay Presidency, and they
are easily distinguishable in their appearance from the native Christians. Most
of our parishes were started by Goanese, who set out to find a new home, and
better their condition. As a consequence, you will find many Portuguese customs
among our Catholic people. There are also quite a number of Catholics among the
Mahratti fishermen, and the native priest, who is assistant pastor here, has
charge of them.

Bombay ...

From Bandra it is about a half an hour by train to the centre of Bombay City. We
have three schools there St. Xavier's College, St. Xavier's High School, and
St. Mary's High School. The college has about 800 pupils, of whom only about 100
are Christians. It has become a co-ed institution lately, and there are about
thirty girls attending. St. Xavier's High School has about 900 boys at present,
of whom less than half are Christians. Both these are day schools. They have
fewer pupils now than before the war, and both are undermanned, especially the
high school. There are only five priests there now, of whom one is Father
Rudden, of the Missouri Province. The other four are Swiss, and there is one old
Brother. Before the war, there were seven or eight scholastics, about the same
number of priests, and a number of Brothers. Father Hull, editor of the
Examiner, also stays at the high school. There are, of course, a great many lay
teachers, male and female, and the Hindu teachers have to be watched constantly,
to see that they do not neglect their work.

St. Mary's has about 180 boarders, mostly Eurasians. Father Farrell is there, as
pastor of the church, St Anne's. He has an assistant for the natives, a native
Jesuit priest. Mr. McGlinchey is prefect of discipline, and Mr. Boyton is also
prefect of one division. There are two other scholastics, several priests and
two Brothers. Besides the boarders, about 350 day students attend the school.
Although the boarding fees are almost twice as high as at Bandra, and the boys
are better dressed, still there are many orphans and free students among them

There is no church at St. Xavier's College, nor at the high school which is
adjoining. Near St. Mary's there is a new church, St. Ignatius', with a parish of
about 2,000, and a resident Jesuit pastor. It also has its parochial school. The
residence of the Archbishop is at our church of the "Holy Name". The superior of
the mission lives here also. Besides the pastor, a Swiss, Father Bennett, of the
Missouri Province, lives here, is military chaplain, and is kept busy attending
the war hospitals which are numerous and well filled. The cathedral so called,
is in the heart of a native district, and has only about 300 parishioners. Two
native priests live there

At one time, all the property adjoining belonged to the cathedral, but it was
leased at a nominal price, for periods of 60 or 100 years, the lease being
renewable indefinitely, according to the contract. Those who were in charge were
told that leases were always taken in that way. . Since then, the property has
risen to a hundred times its-former value, but nothing can be done to change the
terms of the lease. Cheap Hindu tenement sky-scrapers have been erected all
around the cathedral, and the Catholics have been obliged to move from the
vicinity. This is one of many examples that have come under my observation of
the lack of what we would call "gumption" among the native priests. They do not
seem to belong to the church militant when there is question of resisting
injustice

Some five miles up above Bandra, on the sea-coast, we have a country house,
where some go occasionally on Thursdays or holidays. Another favorite health
resort, for a longer stay, is Khandalla, in the hills, about forty' miles inland.
We have a couple of villas here, where some go during the summer months, and
where the boarders of St. Mary's also go for their vacation

At Poona, a good-sized city, some seventy miles to the southeast of Bombay, we
have a high school, with about 300 day students. Father Barrett is prefect of
studies here, etc. the etc. comprises most of our work here in India' Father
Lynch is military chaplain and assistant parish priest at Karachi, a growing
city about 500 miles up the coast from Bombay, just south of Beluchistan. Father
Kiefer, of the Missouri Province, is at Quetta, an oasis in the mountains, near
the Afghanistan border. Father Westropp, also of the Missouri Province, is
military chaplain at Ahmednagar, about seventy miles due west of Bombay. I think
this accounts for all our American missionaries; although we cannot be called
missionaries in the strictest sense of the word: others have labored and we have
entered upon the fruits of their labors

About the climate and the weather: It is hot, but not unbearably so. I have come
to the conclusion that human nature is about the same everywhere, and that where
some men live, others can also live. All the reports I heard in America, or at
least, the impressions I got were greatly exaggerated. Bearing heat and cold
seems to me rather a question of character and will- power than anything else.
Even in Singapore, just above the equator, I was not oppressed by the heat and
morning and evening, there were tennis players out on the courts. By the way,
our Catholic "Gymkhana" has a fine tennis court at Bandra, which I patronize at
times. They talk much about the heat in the interior parts of India, where they
have inner screens inside the house, which they keep damp, in order to keep out
the hot air. But I notice that people from these parts complain as much as
anybody else when we get a hot day in Bombay

It does get hot, however, that can't be denied, and the direct rays of the sun
are hotter than in America; but even on the hottest days, a fine breeze springs
up in the morning, here in Bombay, and for the greater part of the year, there
is a breeze day and night. I am especially favored in Bandra, which is a cool
suburb of the city.

Still, we all wear "topees", or pith hats, which allow the air to circulate over
the head, and nearly all carry umbrellas, as a protection against the sun. From
November to February the months are like spring in the early morning and
evening, and the thermometer registers as low as 58 or 56. It gets hot, however,
when the sun mounts up in the sky. In the hottest months, the temperature rarely
goes above 95 in the shade, usually the maximum is between 85 and 93.

Monsoons

The terrible monsoon, which I had heard so much about, also proved an agreeable
disappointment. It began in May, a strong wind from the southwest; the rain came
in the end of the month, rather earlier than usual for Bombay. There were
several severe thunderstorms in the beginning, but after the first week or two,
there was no thunder nor lightning. All through June the wind and rain
continued. In July, there was more rain and less wind; in August more wind and
less rain. It rained still less in September, and the wind dies out gradually in
October.

During the monsoon, the weather is very much like ours during a very hot April;
it does not rain continually, but there is a good deal of sunshine at times. But
when it does rain, it pours

The nominal rainfall in Bombay during these months is about 90 inches ; we have
had 78 up to date. In some parts of India, they get 200 inches or more, in other
parts not more than 20. It only rains during the monsoon, which starts earlier
in southern India, and later in the northern districts. The monsoon winds are
the southern trade winds. The clouds are driven along by the winds; they strike
the mountains or the high lands and are precipitated. The streets dry up
quickly, and the water at once seems to soak into the ground, but you can
readily imagine that there is not much dust during the monsoon. During the rest
of the year, dust is one of the greatest discomforts of life in India.
Preparations for the monsoon begin in April. Deep trenches are dug on both sides
of the roads to carry off the water. But often there is an overflow, tram-cars
are stopped and houses are flooded.

Dress

The people dress, of course, according to the climate. We wear white soutanes,
long and flowing, and not tied in the middle. Priests usually wear black on the
streets. Many of the English Fathers, and all the Americans, go out in civilian
dress, some all white, some in white trousers and black coat. There are many
Europeans in Bombay, and these all dress in European style. The natives have
their own style. Hindu men and women of the lower class go bare-legged, with a
long sheet, 15 feet or so long, twisted around their legs and tied about the
waist. The women wear also a similar sheet around the bosom and shoulders, the
men wear only the one sheet, which for some, is only a loin-cloth. Even this is
frequently dispensed with by children, even in the busy streets of Bombay. The
better classes of Hindu men wear in addition to the leg-sheet, a shirt and coat,
and sandals which they shed when sitting in railway cars. The better class of
Hindu women and the Parsee women especially, wear gorgeous colored togas, like
the ancient Romans. The women wear rings everywhere, on fingers, wrists, ears,
nose, arms, legs, feet and toes

I have seen some with fifteen or more rings on each leg, from the ankle to the
knee.

Parsees

The Parsees are an interesting people. They form a class in Bombay very much
like our Jews. They are industrious, wealthy, charitable and exclusive. There
are about 100,000 in Bombay, and very few in the rest of India. They are the
descendants of the early Persians, who were driven out by the Mohametans. Their
features, especially of the women, are very fine and distinguished, and they are
much lighter in color than the natives. They are quiet in their ways, polite and
obliging. They are fire-worshippers, like the ancient Zoroastrians. They neither
cremate their dead, like the Hindus, nor bury them, but expose them to be
devoured by birds of prey. This is done on what are called the "Towers of
Silence", of which the Parsees have three or four in Bombay. Each consists of
three concentric wooden towers, about twelve feet high. The outer tower is for
the men, the inner one for the women and the inmost for children. The bodies are
placed on the walls at an appointed time each day, and they say that they are
entirely stripped of flesh in ten or twelve minutes by the huge vultures which
come from a distance at that time in expectation of their feast. Then the bodies
are washed down from the walls into a huge, concrete-lined pit, which holds
about 2000 bodies

When the pit is filled, it is covered over, and a new tower erected. No one is
ever allowed to go near the towers, as all the property round about belongs to
the Parsees, and so no photographs can be taken. There are some pictures,
however, on postcards, which were probably taken by Parsees themselves. Even
when a visitor is taken in the enclosure by a Parsee friend, he is not allowed
near enough to get a good view of the tower

On the hill just above the site of the "Towers of Silence", are the beautiful
"Hanging Gardens" of Bombay. Their history in an interesting one. They are over
the reservoir which supplies Bombay with water

Originally, the reservoir was not covered, and it seems that the vultures and
crows would fly from the "Towers of Silence" to the reservoir, and at times drop
some of their dinner into the water. Complaint was made about this, but the
Parsees would not change the site of their mausoleums, and so the city had to
cover over the reservoir, to which expensive work I suppose the Parsees had to
contribute largely. Now, a stroll through the beautiful gardens is one of the
pleasantest walks in Bombay

There seem to be as many Mohametans in Bombay as there are Parsees. They have
not the wealth of the Parsees, but they are industrious, and for the most part,
are the small shopkeepers. Occasionally, you will meet veiled Mohametan ladies
on the street, completely enveloped in a long, sheet-like garment, with only
slits for the eyes and nose. The carriages they ride in, are also entirely
closed

The native policemen, or Sepoys, as they are called, are all Sikhs, just as they
are in China; also most of the street car conductors. New York might learn
something from the tramway system here. When all the seats in the car are taken,
no more passengers are allowed in, and the rule is always observed. No one is
allowed to stand between seats but some cars have a standing place railed off in
the middle, on both sides; in the passageway, standing is never allowed.

Many different races are seen on the streets: natives of all parts of the Indian
continent, Arabs, Burmese, Singhalese (from Ceylon), etc. There are very few
Japanese or Chinese here, although Singapore is full of them. The natives all
have their caste-marks on their foreheads, and oftentimes smeared all around
back to their ears. Usually, it is only a little mark on the fore- head, a red
dot or circle, an ellipse or several lines, etc

They seem very sincere in their religion, and impervious to reason. Everywhere
in the native streets are sacred cows, the hinder parts of which the pious
Hindus touch as they pass, and then apply their fingers to their eyes, mouth,
etc. There are many other peculiar customs which they have, but I shall not
enter into a description of any of them now, but bring this long-drawn out
epistle to a close

Recommending myself to your holy sacrifices and prayers,

Yours sincerely in Christ,

H. J.PARKER, S. J

The Bandra Fair

ST. STANISLAUS', BANDRA, December 5, 1916 Since my last batch of Indian news and
customs, perhaps the most interesting thing in my experience was the "Bandra
Fair". Next to the big feast of St. Francis Xavier every ten years in Goa, it is
said to be the biggest thing in India. I sincerely hope that the celebration in
Goa is not conducted along the same lines as the feast here. Before I begin to
describe what I saw here, I would like to make a few annotations on Father
Lynch's notes of our passage over, especially about our hold-up on the high seas,
our passage on the Japanese steamer from Shanghai to Manila, etc., but I am
afraid of the censor, as perhaps Father Lynch may have been.

So to come to the "Fair"

There is in Bandra a church with a "miraculous statue". It has a history very
much like that of the statue of Our Lady at Montserrat, near Manresa, in Spain.
It belonged to some very old church, was lost for many years, and finally was
found on the sea shore by some Catholic fishermen, near the place where the
present beautiful church has been erected. The feast of the church, "Our Lady of
the Hill", is celebrated on the Sunday within the octave of the Nativity of the
Blessed Virgin.\*, There is a novena preceding the feast, and an octave
following it. During the octave, the "Fair" is held

The novena is all right. Bandra is a great Catholic community, and we all form
one happy family of both jurisdictions, with the usual family quarrels. All the
sodalities in Bandra have their procession and mass at the "Hill Church" some
time during the novena. Our men's sodality had their mass there on Sunday,
September 3. Everything was quiet then, although the church was crowded for all
the masses. There were only a few booths around the church, and near the top of
the hill, where some pious pictures were sold, some votive wax candles and some
small wax votive figures or merely arms or legs or heads, etc

The next Sunday was the feast of the church, and quite a number of Ours from
Bombay came up to see the sights. One of them wore his black soutane, because he
thought it would look unbecoming to appear at a religious festival in white; it
was the first time he had come to the "Fair". It was raining all morning, and
indeed nearly the whole week. So we threaded our way in the rain through a
narrow street, taking a short cut to the main road leading to the church,
apprehensive always of a heavier shower descending upon our heads from some
window above us. You must know that it is a custom in India to throw everything
not wanted in the house out of the window, regardless of consequences

Even in our own houses, all that I have been in, no buckets are kept for the
waste water, but everything goes out of the window. The principle is "never look
before you throw". As there is also "open plumbing" throughout all India, you
can imagine more things than I care to describe

Well, we got at last on one of the main roads of Bandra, and there was no
possibility of our getting lost now; all we had to do was to follow the
crowds. There were hundreds there, and thousands before we had gone far

They come from Bombay and the whole surrounding country. Most of them are
pagans, because the "Fair" is a pagan festival tagged on to what was originally
a Catholic feast

Long before we came to the foot of the hill, the shows began. It was a regular
Coney Island in miniature, and in India style. There were the merry-go-rounds,
the tumbling boxes, the circus with all the side shows, the master of the black
art, the Siamese twins (really such), the lemonade and "greasemeat" booths, etc.
This part of the show was just in front and alongside of one of our churches,
which was thrown open all the day to all the "worshippers" who chose to come in.
Some of us went into the circus on the way back, and saw a very good show of
tumblers and jugglers and magic for about twenty minutes, all for the price of
two pice, or one cent

We said we did not want reserved seats, which cost four cents, but they were
given to us anyway. The magician had a; good .show, lasting one hour and a half,
and he gave me tickets for the school boys at one anna each, or two cents, arid
admitted all the faculty in free

We went along the road up to the church, following the crowd. The way was lined
with Hindu beggars, blind and lame and palsied, and some undoubtedly leprous.
There were bronze statues of Buddha and -other Hindu gods and goddesses, with
their attendant priests, with their plates for copper offerings. There were
wonderful kaleidoscopic views of some kind, where you could take a "peep for a
pie"-- a sixth of a cent, a very common coin in India. There were fakirs lying on
thorns and nails, holy men with long hair and painted bodies, wearing only a
loin-cloth. There were sacred cows with an extra pair of legs hanging from their
backs. These are grafted on them when they are young, and then they follow every
fair in India. Like the sacred cows which wander freely through the native
streets of Bombay, these too are holy, and have certain parts touched by the
faithful Hindu believers, who then apply their fingers to their eyes, nose, etc

Farther along the road, the booths increase in number, and at the foot of the
hill and all the way up, they line both sides, with only a narrow space to walk
between.

Here you have to elbow your way as best you can through a fourth-dressed, dirty
and "itchy" crowd of people-- I never knew till I struck India what the ancient
"scabies" was. Nearly all the booth-keepers are Mohametans. These also, all
along the way do a thriving business in waxen votive figures

At the top of the hill, all around the church on the only open side, are also
booths. For the most part, waxen figures and rosaries, prayerbooks, etc., are
sold here. But right at the door of the chaplain's house was a Hindu booth, where
only statues and pictures of Hindu saints were sold. Just below it were sold
rosaries and holy pictures. Our pastor saw one of his parishioners buy a statue
of Our Lady at one booth and another of Siva at the booth adjoining, both
probably to receive equal honor, and hold places of equal distinction on the
mantelpiece. Hindu boys were going about with plates and saucers in which there
was a statue of some Hindu deity, and where the faithful "got merit" by throwing
in the pice, and there were Catholic boys there offering the same opportunity to
their own people with statues of St Anthony, St. Aloysius, etc.

The church was packed, and there was a babble of confusion, although mass was
going on. We managed to get in a little way, through the sacristy. In the
afternoon we returned, hoping to be able to see more. The Blessed Sacrament was
still in the tabernacle, although on the following Sunday, the octave of the
feast, it was at one side of the sanctuary, separated by a screen from the crowd
The nuns were saying their office in the tribune overhead; two girls were
praying devoutly on priedieus right near the altar; two men were selling flowers
and candles on the altar steps. In the sanctuary were sold strings which had
been put around the miraculous statue, the length of the string varying
according to the price paid. There were pagan men and women there, with the
caste marks on their foreheads, buying the strings and putting them around the
necks of their children Pagan men were buying white linen caps, which doubtless
had been on the head of the statue, and putting them on their own heads. Men and
women were prostrating themselves up the steps of the sanctuary before the
"great Christian idol". If it had not been for the rain, we would have seen some
prostrating themselves all the way up the hill. I have been told that some do it
all the way from Bombay, but this I doubt; I tell only what I myself saw.

Parsees are generally very strict in observing the prohibition of their religion
against ever entering a Christian church, but I saw many Parsees here. One young
girl of about thirteen was, lying on one of the pews, while her father and
relatives were with her, praying earnestly for her recovery from her sickness.

On the following Sunday, the octave of the feast, two more of our American
exiles came up from Bombay, and we went up the hill again. There was a bigger
crowd than ever, even in the church, and we got some fair pictures. In one of
the rooms, just off the church was a great heap of wax figures and candles,
about six feet wide by three feet high, and this was not the first heap of the
kind that had been gathered there, the Vicar told us. He said that the wax is
made into candles, and given to various churches.

Such was the "Bandra Fair". Any comment on it seems superfluous.

On September 28, Archbishop Jurgens died. He seemed to break down completely
from the worries of war, the difficulties caused by it in the mission, and the
repatriation of his countrymen. Father Bruder, S J., the vicar general of the
Poona diocese, and administrator for Bishop Doering, who was in Germany when tie
war broke out, was appointed administrator also of the archdiocese by the
Apostolic Delegate, Bishop Zaleski. The wires were hot for a while, and the
cable also. The delegate left for Rome yesterday. Father Bruder is oscillating
at present between Poona and Bombay It may be some time before we get our new
archbishop, the three names sent over to Rome went down with the Arabic and a
new copy of the list had to be sent over.

Khandalla

The October holidays began here on October 4, after a retreat to the boys. We
get a month in May and another in October, and this is the order also at
St. Xavier's and at Poona. Hence many of us took this opportunity to make our
retreat either in Poona or Khandalla. Khandalla, where we have two villas, and
where the old German Fathers and Brothers are detained is up in the hills, about
fifty miles to the south east of Bombay, and Poona is about twenty miles farther
in the same direction. The railway course, however, is almost twice as long, as
they have to go up through the island of Salsette before they can cross to the
mainland, and it takes about four hours to reach Poona.

It was supposed to be the end of the rainy season, and the trip up was
beautiful, and the second class coaches were comfortable. Everywhere, on both
sides of the railway were green rice fields, and the reapers were at work in
many places. After crossing to the mainland , and going somewhat to the south,
the train began to pull slowly uphill. Beautiful stretches of green valleys and
richly verdured hills were seen. Poona is 2000 feet above the sea level, and
Khandalla is, I think, a little higher. Just before reaching Khandalla there is
a switchback on the line, where the scenery is the finest.

There were some interesting sights on the way. I saw there for the first time,
what I have seen later several times, a small freight car, about half the, size
of ours marked "29 pilgrims, 8 horses, 10 ponies". I would not like to travel
with the pilgrims to the Ganges, Hindu pilgrim style.

Poona

Poona is a city of 150,000, but has no telephones nor street cars. The native
city is small and crowded, but there are large cantonments on the outskirts,
where about 2000 British soldiers are stationed. There is also another battalion
of a thousand at Kirkee, a few miles away . Poona has been a military centre
since its conquest by the English about a hundred years ago. Many of the better
educated, and wealthy Brahmins live in the neighborhood.

The plague was raging in Poona when I got there. Father Hull told me that in one
day there were 200 deaths I saw the official statistics for the month of October
later on. In the city limits alone, there were 1178 deaths. Here in Bombay it
was also bad in the spring In one week there were 118 deaths of smallpox, and 84
of bubonic plague. After that there were a number of cases of cholera. But very
few Europeans suffer; it is mostly among the natives. It is because of the
prevalence of the plague for the last twenty years or more in this part of India
that there are no days of abstinence of obligation in our jurisdiction. The
Bishop of Damaun, however, of the Portuguese or Padroado jurisdiction, does not
grant this exemption from fasting and abstinence, so that there is difficulty at
times in confessional cases. Little effort seems to be taken by the authorities
to stamp out disease; I suppose they are afraid of too much opposition among the
people to modern methods. There was one case lately where a woman died of
smallpox in our parish and yet was brought to the church on an open pall, and
had the usual church services. No friends came except the four pall-bearers and
the hired band which seems an essential part of every funeral. I may have more
to say later on about funeral customs.

On the way back from Poona it rained heavily, and all the rest of the month
there were frequent rains around Bombay although the monsoon usually ends in
September This year we had a rainfall of almost ninety inches, whereas I saw
from the statistics for the last forty years that the normal precipitation in
Bombay is about seventy inches In Poona, the normal is about twenty-five inches.
Clothes, books, etc., get badly mildewed during the monsoon, and it is almost
impossible to keep steel from rusting.

St Stanislaus' again

School reopened November 4, and we had to refuse many, both boarders and day
scholars, for want of accommodations. There is persistent talk of a high school,
here in Bandra, and we have been approached with money offers to induce us to
develop into one, by adding two more classes to our curriculum. But our superior
of the mission, Father Gyr, says, "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes". It seems that
St Xavier's was helped in this way, and in consequence, the children of the
benefactors, "down to the 30th generation," expect reductions in fees. Indeed it
seems to be the universal custom here, to expect a substantial return for any
favor done.

The Hindus had their New Year towards the end of October. It is called Divali,
and they celebrate it for three days, which are also "bank holidays", as they
are called. It would not be so bad if the celebrations were only during the day
time, but they extend through the night as well. It is also the Hindu wedding
season, and all night long the bands play, and when they pause for breath, the
drums beat and there is a monotonous Hindu chant. One newly wedded couple just
outside our compound were serenaded for three nights. Sunday morning, while our
men's sodality were having their meeting, the couple took a short cut through our
property, and  the band struck up right in front of the church. I rushed out
just a few seconds too late. The next morning, however, I was in time. I heard
the band, and saw the advance guard making for the open gate just after I had
finished breakfast. I was on the spot at once, but retreated in disorder when it
turned out to be a Catholic wedding party making their way to our church.

The band was left outside, and the bride and bride's maid led the way, under huge
umbrellas, borne by half-naked Indian coolies. There were six weddings in our
church on that one morning, as this was also our wedding season. The Parsees had
their New Year in September, also a public holiday. When the Mohametans have
theirs, I have not ascertained, but they had a great festival in November, the
"Mohurrum". It is the feast of two brothers, Hoosein and Hasan, who martyred
each other.

All Mohametans who die on that day go straight to the enjoyment of the houris.
Of course, they are all spoiling for a fight, and there is a riot nearly every
year during their procession. One party of the faithful rejoice because the
brothers went to heaven, another mourns over their death, so there is always
friction between them. The processions were forbidden in Bombay last year, so
this year they all came out to Bandra by the thousand, and had their procession
here. It went off quietly enough, though they certainly were a
villainous-looking lot. They took a miniature mosque down to the seaside, and
bathed it in the water. If they had gone in themselves, the whole proceedings
would have been justified

Yet this is not as bad as the Hindu feast in March, called the "Holi" feast. At
this time the gods are supposed to sleep, and men do as they please. All night
long the uproar lasts, and the revellers throw over each other some kind of red
paint or powder. For weeks afterwards you can see the stain on the shirts that
they wear, when indeed, they wear this article of clothing

I think these diary notes are lengthy enough this time. We are beginning the
cool season in Bombay, and it is true that I do now occasionally need an extra
sheet at night. It really gets down below sixty sometimes, they tell me, during
the winter, which lasts until near the end of February

Yours affectionately in Dno., H. J. PARKER, S.J.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



https://web.bc.edu/jsdc/jsl/wlet_19190601.pdf
https://web.bc.edu/jsdc/jsl/wlet_19190601.pdf
HOLY WEEK IN BANDRA

An account of the way in which we celebrate Holy week in Bandra may be
interesting. The essential features of the sacred services are of course the
same here as elsewhere in the Catholic world, but some of the variations are
curious and worth recording.

To begin with Palm Sunday: We have on this day the most picturesque of the
"Passos," or representations of the different steps or stages in Our Lord's
Passion. These are given on every Sunday evening during Lent. The custom was
introduced by the early Portuguese missionaries among their fisher-folk
converts, and has continued down to our day. In olden times, and indeed, until
very recently, the scenes represented in the churches were weird and wonderful,
and the processions used to be enlivened with the generous use of "Kajunas," or
big fire-crackers. Most of the objectionable features have now been universally
abolished, after much trouble by the Bishops, but the scenes still remain highly
interesting, and add much to the devotion of the simple people.

The Kolis, or fisher-folk, the oldest inhabitants of the island, who were
conquered by the Marathas, now the largest part of our congregations, themselves
provide everything for the Lenten mystery-plays. Every Sunday, after the last
Mass, they put up a large platform in the sanctuary, the main altar being
covered, and the Blessed Sacrament removed to one of the side altars. This
platform is always taken down immediately after the procession in the evening,
so it can be seen what trouble the good people go to to have their passion play.
They have a large life-size wooden statue of Christ/most hideous to view, and
this is arrayed suitably for the different scenes of the Passion which are
represented. The sanctuary is closed off from view by a large black curtain,
with the instruments of the Passion crudely worked in white in the middle. The
people begin gathering for the service hours beforehand, and when the sermon
begins, there is not even standing room in the church, and very little outside
near the doors. The sermon is usually given in Marathi, at least in our church.
Towards the end, the preacher leads up in his peroration to an appropriate
point, then he rings a little bell, and the curtain is drawn aside, and an
apostrophe made to Christ in his suffering.

The scene on the stage is made as near to actual fact as our simple fisher-folk
can make it. The rocks and trees are represented in the Agony in the Garden, and
angels, apostles, soldiers, etc., have their place in different scenes.
Formerly, all the characters were represented by statues, made up of cloth and
stuffed, except for the heads and hands, which were of wood. But the heads of
the other characters were more hideous even than that of Christ, so one of the
German Fathers a few years ago got the bright idea of substituting living
figures for the statues. So our boys were dressed up appropriately, and posed
for the apostrophe of the preacher. Now, the village folk do all this
themselves, and really do it very well. They are not equal to the Oberammergau
peasants, no doubt, but the tableaux are really very picturesque and
appropriate. When the priest leaves the pulpit, the posing still continues, and
lasts for at least five minutes, while the people gaze on in breathless awe. I
have been in the sacristy after the sermon, and have seen the statues come to
life when the curtain fell. Some sank down on the ground utterly exhausted, the
effort and the strain were so great.

Now comes the procession, one of the chief features of the service. The
confraternities are out in full strength on these occasions. First comes the
confraternity of Sts Peter-and Paul, the Patrons of our church. They are on hand
for all the greater church services, and preserve order and decorum, besides
adding a touch of color to the gatherings. They are usually in black during Lent
though this is not necessary, as some of the fishermen attend in their fisher
garb of what profane lips would term a night-shirt - and not too long - with
bare legs and feet. But they all wear a red cloak and cape, with a blue cowl the
colors may vary a little, for distinction and other reasons, but this makes no
difference.

This confraternity usually goes first, carrying candles. They reminded me
strongly, when I first saw them, of what I had seen in Manresa, Spain, where the
big, thick candles are carried horizontally, with the wax dripping all the way.

The confraternity of Our Lady of Dolors follows in the procession. They are for
the most part "sheet- ladies", as we call them, with a black-and-white emblem of
Our Lady of Dolors on their breast. The national dress of the women is a
closely-fitting bodice, very short and with short sleeves, and a long strip of
some colored cloth wound around the legs, and drawn up in the back to fall over
the heads and shoulders. Over this garment they wear, when they come to church,
a long, shapeless covering of white, which envelopes their head and whole body.

On some special occasions, our school boys and the boys of St. Sebastian's, the
village school of our parish, have their place in the procession. Just before
the clergy comes the choir, singing the Miserere. The Preacher of the occasion
follows, carrying a large crucifix, with the Pastor and another priest usually
accompanying him. Then follow the faithful, in go-as-you-please style, men and
women, old and young, all mixed up, with a dog not unfrequently trotting along
here and there, or darting in and out of the procession. A child may be led by
the hand or carried on the arm by father or mother in either confraternity.
Indeed, I have seen a man directing the choir in the church, with a baby on one
arm and a baton, which he was yielding vigorously, in the other hand.

The procession usually goes around the church, not leaving the compound, and on
his return into the church, the celebrant blesses the people with the large
crucifix.

Such is the usual Sunday evening service during Lent. On Palm Sunday evening,
there are special features to the procession. A kneeling figure of Christ
bearing the Cross is taken out of the church on a platform borne by eight or ten
men. The cross is about twelve feet high and proportionately thick and heavy,
while the figure of the kneeling Savior is about seven or eight feet in length.

Great crowds of people follow the procession out into the street, and then back
into the compound through a gate at one end, over to the class room's, where an
altar has been prepared, with a carpet leading up to it on the dusty ground, and
benches on either side for the clergy. The kneeling Christ halts with the cross
some distance in front of the altar, and the Miserere is intoned, volume being
usually added to it by the presence of a band with a few brass instruments. Such
a band, by the way, seems indispensable also in the church for the High Masses
on special occasions.

Veronica

The crowd in the compound is enormous, including many pagans, but not all the
people are here yet. There are two other processions this evening, and many
follow them, entering the compound for the final tableau. There is a hush of
expectancy after the long Miserere, and then the second procession puts in its
appearance, coming to meet the first one through a gate at the opposite corner
of the compound. Veronica is brought to meet Christ. Veronica is a young lady
borne on a platform by six men.

She has quite an acrobatic feat to go - through with, balancing herself on the
poles on which she is carried. Slowly and solemnly she is brought forward, and
the least sound can be heard in that vast multitude. She carries a cloth
extended over her breast, carefully holding it close, so that no one can see the
obverse side. When she gets near the kneeling Christ, with a dexterous movement
the cloth is turned, and pressed against the face of Christ. Then she is
withdrawn a step or two, and presents the Holy Face impressed in the cloth to
the spell-bound multitude. She stands there for about five minutes or more,
holding the cloth, and turning it slowly to different sides, so that all may see
it.

It is getting dark now, but there is still another procession to come. The Mater
Dolorosa is borne in at the same gate as Veronica, accompanied by her
confraternity. The statue is about seven feet in height, and is clad in blue,
with a silver crown on the head.

There is a still deeper silence as Veronica withdraws and the Mater Dolorosa is
brought near Christ. After a few minutes, the procession with Christ carrying
the cross follows the Veronica procession out of the compound, and the Mater
Dolorosa brings up the rear. Out through another street the crowd goes, where
there must be candles and lamps lit, for it is now quite dark. Veronica
disappears meanwhile, and Christ and the Mater Dolorosa are brought back to the
church, accompanied by the confraternities and a dwindling number of the
faithful.

On Holy Thursday, after the Mass, there is the usual adoration of the Blessed
Sacrament in the Repository all day, but at night the church is closed and
everything is left in darkness. Not even our own community watch before the
Blessed Sacrament during the night. As in some other countries, it would never
do to have the church open, and people out in the streets after dark. The custom
of Catholic Spain is observed, where the churches are closed at the Angelus. If
the men can't come to church during the day-time, why, church is not meant for
them.

The confraternities, the sodalities, etc., all take their turn in adoring the
Blessed Sacrament in the Repository. All day long, also, two altar boys are
swinging censers before the Blessed Sacrament. Every few minutes, the boys
refill the censers with incense, and every half hour, the boys themselves are
relieved by others. This is the practice also during the "Thirteen Hours
Adoration," which takes the place of our "Forty Hours." Again it would never do
to have the church open at night; so the service must close at nightfall

All day long, on Holy Thursday, the faithful, and unfaithful as welfare
thronging to one of the classrooms where a representation of the Last Supper is
had. Christ is seated at table with the twelve Apostles, with glasses and plates
before them. Nor do these long remain empty. The people bring fruit and wine,
and offerings as well for - the money-box, which is conveniently placed. All day
long they come, not only Christians, but Hindus, Parsees and Mohammedans,
entering into the classroom at the only door, and leaving by one of the windows,
at which steps have been prepared.

The figures of Christ and the Apostles are all made up, save for the heads and
hands, which are of wood and are especially ugly. These "Apostles," or their
predecessors I am not sure which, have an interesting history At the time of the
"Goanese Schism," when all British India was put under the jurisdiction of
Propaganda, and taken away from the Portuguese Padroado, our kolis, or
fisherfolk, left St Andrew's Church, and submitted themselves to the jurisdiction
of the Vicar Apostolic, "non ex puris motivis nequesme sanguinis effusione," as
the old history of our house says.

These people had made at their own expense the statues of the twelve Apostles,
which were used for the Holy Thursday representations every year at St. Andrew's.
When they left that jurisdiction, they demanded their property to be given to
them. This was refused, so one night they stole the statues and hid them away.
It was between the years 1852 and 1860 that this happened the history of our
house continues: "Consdus fuit P. Superior (Antonius Pereira) hujus rei, et cum
turba multa irrueret mane ut investigaret totam domum, per misit paucis mtrare.
Sed nihil invenerunt, nam st'atuae absconditae sunt apud varias familias." The
case was taken to court, but nothing could be proved. I don't know whether the
present statues are the ones to which that ancient history refers, but they are
ugly enough to be the same.

There is an interesting little incident connected with these statues, which
shows the simple character of the people. One of the little fisher-boys, who was
helping to bring back the heads and hands of the Apostles on Good Friday was
observed to give the head of Judas a sly punch every now and then.

All day long on Holy Thursday there is -- as a counter attraction to the Blessed
Sacrament in the Repository -- a Huge statue of the Ecce Homo in the rear of the
church, whose feet the people come to kiss.

On Thursday evening, after the Tenebrae--which is had then for the only time
during the week--the Lotio Pedum takes place. Two long benches are arranged in the
nave, where twelve men and boys are seated, with their feet up on a bench. The
Superior goes around with a towel and basin, and to the accompaniment of most
lugubrious music and chanting, performs the ceremony of the washing of the feet.
After this, there is a sermon on the Blessed Sacrament.

On Good Friday, after the sermon in Mahratti in the evening, a life-size body of
Christ is taken down from the Cross in the sanctuary, and carried in procession
around the church on a bier, out into the street and around the whole compound.
There are crowds of pagans present, both in and about the church, and in the
street everything is held up for the procession to pass.

After the procession returns to the church, there is sometimes a sermon in
English, while the bier with the body of Christ is on the platform in the
sanctuary. After this, the body is put into a sepulchre which has been made
ready under one of the side altars. The priest then incenses the body, after
which he is the first to kiss it. Then the faithful follow suit, and pass along,
one after another, the ceremony lasting till near midnight. It is a remarkable
fact that on Good Friday, the faithful fisher-folk observe a black fast--not a
particle of food nor a drop of water passes their lips until the body of the
dead Christ has been kissed that night.

The olden abuses of the Good Friday representations have been done away with. In
some places, a live man used to represent Christ our Lord on the Cross, wearing
a long black beard, with a Moorish turban and Hindu clothes. A woman
representing Mary was taken about on a bier, and received from the faithful the
veneration due to the Mother of God. On Holy Saturday, different views of
Jerusalem were hung above the crucifix on the altar. During the earlier part of
the services, flowers, leaves, lozenges and bits of fruit fell from, the roof.
As Mass was about to be said, the views of Jerusalem trembled, as if the
terrible historic earthquake were repeating itself. Burly figures were seen
moving behind the cross. When the Gloria was intoned, little black imps, with
bells tied to their waists, jumped from behind the cross, and fled to cover. All
this signified that with the Resurrection of Christ the kingdom of evil was
destroyed.

At present, there is nothing of all this. Only, in some churches, the head of
Christ is made to move by means of machinery, while the priest himself attends
to the taking down of Christ from the cross.

There is not much more worth recording of Holy Week in Bandra. On Holy Saturday,
after the services, the blessing of the houses of the parish begins. Each house
must be blessed, and each part of the house in which a different family may
live. It takes some days to go through the whole parish, and in some cases, the
blessing of the houses may be continued for weeks.

On Easter Sunday, the church bells throughout the town begin pealing at 3.30 A.
M., to inaugurate the rejoicings of the "great day which the Lord has made.

Weddings & Funerals in Bandra

Weddings

It may seem somewhat incongruous to combine together these two important events
in the religious life of our faithful people, but around them cluster many
distinctive customs of the country, and the combination of the two topics in a
letter may 'also serve to add a little unity to what would otherwise be a
disjointed series of jottings.

We hear, and see, much of child marriages among our pagan Hindu neighbors, and
our own church records show many youthful marriages. But these seem to have been
chiefly among the poorer classes of our people, in the fishing or agricultural
villages. Early marriages among the classes who aspire to a little
respectability are rarely met with.

There are many reasons for this. In the first place, the wedding festivities are
so elaborate, custom binding the people to a prodigal outpouring of money on
these occasions, that marriage can be afforded only after many years of labor
have enabled the groom, at last, to put aside from his meagre earnings a goodly
number of rupees for the celebration. Then too, the young people are always
expected to help support the family after they come to money-making age; their
earnings are not considered their own, but belong to the parents, while only an
allowance is given them for their needs.

The choice, also, of a partner in life seems to be usually made, not by the
young people themselves, but by the parents for them. This has its advantages,
of course, and prevents many ill-suited and unfortunate marriages. But parents
are apt to get tyrannical and unreasonable, and the custom, taking into account
the growing independence of character of the young people, seems to be
productive of more harm than good. Several times difficulties of this kind have
been proposed to me in the "Question Box" for solution from the pulpit, and
other cases have been brought to me privately for solution, and I have always
found that the old people were in the wrong, or that at least they were very
imprudent. On one occasion, when I sanctioned a marriage, which had been held
over for years, the girl's parents, who had been opposing the union, begged that
at least their names should not be read out, according to custom, as the parents
of the girl at the announcements of the banns.

The family life of the people is patriarchal. Very few start married life in a
home of their own, even when well able to do so. Parents exercise authority over
their children much longer than is common amongst us, and the supremacy of the
mother-in-law is unquestioned. I have frequently heard men over thirty or forty
accusing themselves in confession of disobedience to their parents- for many
years after their marriage. Before marriage the young people are in great fear
of their parents: the young man may be sent out of the house, or cut off without
a pice, if disobedient to the parents' wishes regarding his future partner in
life; the young girl may be denied a dowry, and cannot well be married without
one

The dowry custom is universal, and is productive of more evils among the pagans
than among our Christian people. The Hindus marry very young, from early
childhood even, though they are not allowed to live as man and wife till they
have attained the age of puberty. From these early marriages results the large
number of child-widows, who cannot marry again, according to strict Hindu law..
The Brahmans, moreover, do not recognize post-puberty marriages. The English
Government passed a law many years ago legalizing the marriage of widows, and
now there is a great movement spreading among the Hindus of all classes for
later and for widow marriages. Associations for this purpose have started up in
many places, schools have been provided for these child-widows, and homes where
they can be boarded and suitable husbands provided for them.

Yet the condition of the Hindu girl is very miserable. She is on the market with
her dowry, and usually without any education at all. The young man, or his
parents for him, chooses a wife from the many available. According to the
qualifications of the young fellow for some government clerkship, he can demand
a larger dowry, or refuse marriage altogether, and often make his intended
father-in-law pay his way through college. If he manages to get a degree of B.A.
after his name, his value is beyond price. If he is a "Matric," he is still
worth a thousand rupees or more. If his degree is F.M., or "Failed Matric,"
which seems to be a recognized degree of which many are proud, he can still
fetch a good price in the marriage market.

A great deal of money is spent on the wedding festivities by all, both pagans
and Christians. They will borrow from the "banias," the Indian Shylocks, and
beggar the family for generations, because it is the custom to waste money on
weddings and funerals. Among our own people wines and liquors flow freely. I was
told that at one wedding recently, where the parties were not wealthy, seven
thousands rupees (about 2,300 dollars) were spent on drink alone. This can only
be explained by the custom of continuing the festivities for a week or longer
after the wedding day. The expense is not over with the breakfast, after which
the couple are seen off at the station amid a shower of rice and old shoes. No!
Day after day, and night after night, the feasting continues, and the guests are
entertained. Friends and relatives who come from a distance must have some
provision made to keep them during the whole time of the celebration in or about
the house of the married couple.

Of course, not many can afford this; but all aim at something like it, and all
do much more than they can afford, borrowing the necessary money at exorbitant
rates of interest. Many condemn the custom, yet none has the courage to act
against it. I was speaking of the folly of it all to one young fellow who was
spending- thousands on his wedding, and he said: "I can't very well help it. I
must do for the others what they did for me when I was their wedding guest.

To mention now a few of the peculiar ceremonies connected with many of the
weddings: The bridal couple make their way to church preceded very often by a
band- often a Hindu band, playing on their tomtoms and kettle-drums and queer
bagpipe-like instruments--and walking under a couple of gorgeous umbrellas,
carried high above them in state by half-naked Hindus. The poorer Christians
will employ a native band, while the wealthier pagans will have a Goanese band
for the like occasions, for the Goanese are the swell musicians, just as they
are the swell cooks.

After the wedding ceremony is over in the church, and before Mass begins, the
friends of the couple enter the sanctuary to offer their felicitations. In the
middle of the Mass, a flower girl enters, and pins a small bouquet on the groom's
coat.

After Mass, there is a reception at the house of the bride, when the wedding
cake is cut, and the invited guests partake of the wedding breakfast. The
cutting of the cake is an interesting ceremony. Everything seems very solemn and
formal, perhaps only because of the presence of the priest. Bride and groom
grasp the knife together, and their trembling fingers generally need assistance
to effect an incision in the cake. This is the climax of the proceedings, and
immediately the band, an indispensable adjunct strikes up a joyous tune, always
the same for every like occasion.

At the breakfast, or at the reception in the evening there must always be a
toast given by one of the priests of whom there are often several present. It is
a very solemn affair. The married couple come up close to the embarrassed
clergyman, and all stand and await in awe- some silence the priest's words of
felicitation and benediction. Then bride and groom go to the throne or seat of
honor of some kind, prepared in the middle of the room and the groom tries to
make some appropriate speech of thanks.

One couple, whose reception I attended, held open house for a week, before going
to a Hill Station for the honeymoon. The first evening, only a few neighbors
were invited with some priests, and it was a quiet family affair. The garden
around the groom's house had been destroyed to make room for a large dance salon,
which had been erected thereon, and beautifully adorned and carpeted. The guests
were mostly rich pagan neighbors and friends --Hindus, Mohammedans and Parsis,
each dressed in his picturesque national costume. The loose flowing robes of the
Mohammedan and Hindu, the rich green and gold turbans and other queer headgear,
the beautiful embroidered satin saris of the Parsi ladies, all served to make
the scene a striking one. The bride came in weeping on the arm of the groom, and
they were escorted by a bevy of young ladies to a throne at the end of the hall,
where all went up and renewed earlier felicitations. It is the custom at this
reception to offer the married couple the wedding present, of money or jewels.
Amongst the poorer classes a silver rupee (in value, 32 cents) is a common
present. Only the wealthier classes receive presents of silverware, furniture,
etc.

The guests were soon summoned into an inner room for the usual refreshments,
after which one of the priests made the usual speech. Then, after the answer of
the groom, all went out into the dance hall again for a little conversation.
Presently, a servant came around with a tray of neat little button-hole bouquets
for each guest. He was followed by a little Mohammedan boy, all in red, who
carried a long-necked silver sprinkler full of rose water, which he sprinkled
over the bouquet of each guest. Then another servant came along with a tray of
"pan- supari" (literally, "leaf and nut"). This was for the native guests, but
the American guest was given several for himself. The "pan-supari" consisted of
several bits of betel-nut in two rolled-up leaves of some pepper plant, which is
also called the betel-leaf, because chewed with the betel-nut. Usually, the
leaf, the nut and a daub of freshly-slaked lime make up the mouthful to be
chewed, which reddens the lips and teeth. Where it can be afforded, there are
other ingredients to the delicacy. On this occasion, there were also some kinds
of spices added and some reddish paint spread on the inside of the leaves. The
whole was neatly folded in a triangular shape and pinned with a clove, and had
gold leaf all over the top. It looked very pretty, and I suppose was expensive,
but the taste of it on the following day was very disgusting, though to the
native guest it was no doubt a most welcome gift. We did not receive the gift of
two cocoanuts, which I am told are given to every guest at a native wedding to
take home.

I am told there are some interesting customs in the other jurisdiction (Daman
and Goa). In the case of a marriage within the forbidden degrees of kinship, the
couple must pay 1-5 or 1-10 of the marriage dowry--I suppose for the dispensation.
This is only in case the dowry is not less than a certain amount, two thousand
rupees, it seems. If the couple are poor, and have a small dowry, then they must
kneel in the church at Mass on some Sunday with lighted candles in their hands.

Funerals

Some of the funeral customs here are also noteworthy. In this hot country it is
not allowed to keep a corpse unburied for more than 24 hours, so funeral
preparations have to be made in a hurry. There seems to be rarely, if ever, a
Mass said "praesente cadavere." Moreover the 24 hours limit for burial seems to
be rarely awaited: if the death takes place in the early morning, the funeral is
often in the afternoon, and in the morning, if the death was the previous
evening.

The body is always taken to the church and grave in an open coffin. The natives
carry their dead to their resting place on a bier or stretcher, so our
Christians follow suit. It makes no difference of what the person died, whether
of plague or smallpox or other virulent disease the Government cannot make any
radical changes as regards epidemics, sanitation, etc. The people's customs must
be observed, or changed very gradually, while their susceptibilities must be
respected.

Burials in the church itself used to be the custom, and there are many
commemorative slabs in our church over the spots where the remains of the dead
repose For some years past this has not been done, being forbidden, I believe by
the Bishops. Yet there are many graves close to the front entrance of the church
which are still used, and only a few steps further on is the graveyard itself.
These are all "permanent" graves, and only the Bishop has the directorial power
of removing them. How to exercise this power, when there is need of moving the
church or graveyard, will be a problem.

At the first funeral I attended in India--that of an old ex-prefect of the Men's
Sodality--there were about fifteen priests present, though it was pouring rain all
day. No matter how poor the people are, they always want as many priests as
possible to attend the services at the house, and each priest must get his one
rupee or more. The insistence of the New Code of Canon Law that there must be no
interference by other priests in the parochial rights when there is question of
funerals, is interesting in this connection. I believe priests of another church
are now not allowed to attend any funeral unless invited by the parish priest of
the deceased. This custom, of many priests attending the services for the
deceased at the house seems to be universal in Catholic countries. I remember
observing it, and hearing it commented on, in Barcelona, Spain. I believe,
however, that in Bombay city, the priests of our jurisdiction only meet the
funeral cortege at the grave.

While waiting at the house for the priests or the band to turn up, the male
mourners are treated to cigars, or to "biddhies" (native cigarettes) when the
family is very poor. The women all gather in the room around the corpse, and sit
without a word for a long time. No prayers are ever said by the people. On the
first few occasions that I attended a funeral of one of my sodalists, I knelt
down at the side of the coffin and said a prayer in silence for the soul of the
departed. What I did seemed to be appreciated, but I soon came to find out that
this was not the custom, and that I was only expected to wait outside until all
was ready, and then say the usual prayers in my turn with the other priests.

There is always a large gathering of friends and neighbors at the house. Unless
it is most certainly a very bad case of plague or smallpox, the people always
come in great numbers; and, in any case, the children of the household gather
around the open coffin. At one funeral which I attended, the man had died very
suddenly without priest or doctor, and there had been smallpox in the house only
the week before, yet both house and surroundings were crowded with people.

A brass band is always in attendance at the house. Discourses and solemn music
from time to time, also accompany the funeral procession to the church and the
grave. I have seen the choir consist "of one fiddler only, barefoot, dirty and
with frayed trouser ends. At the house, at the church and at the grave he did
the work of the choir, scraping his violin for the Libera," singing the
"Benedictus" alternately with the priest, with many an error of quantity, and
intonations and slurrings all his own.

Each priest at the house must of course earn his rupee, so it is the old
Portuguese custom that each goes in turn into the room where the corpse is laid
out, says the same antiphons and prayers, intones the "Pater Noster" three
times, and three times sprinkles the body with holy water. It takes about three
minutes for each priest to go through his task. Then one priest gives the
blessing of the corpse as prescribed by the rubrics, singing alternately with
the "choir" the "De Profundis.

Everything is quiet until the last blessing is given; not a sound has been heard
all the time, and there is rarely even any quiet weeping by the members of the
bereaved family. All hold themselves in for the final explosion, when the priest
turns to leave the room. Then the wailing begins. Some cannot wait until it is
their turn to pass by the coffin and express their grief in proper order. "Bye"
(beloved) is the commonest expression used and the depth of the grief is
supposed to be proportionate to the vehemence of its vociferation. All the
neighbors take their turn, and of course the members of the family themselves
are the loudest in their demonstrations. All this lasts for several minutes, and
the corpse is with difficulty brought out of the house, where the priest is
waiting to sprinkle it with holy water as it crosses the threshold.

I was surprised on one occasion to see a white coffin for a man of over sixty.
He was the last survivor of our first orphans who came here from Byculla in
1863. I was told that it was "the custom here to bury bachelors in white." I
have not seen this provision made in the church rubrics, but I suppose the
custom now has the force of law, and I would sympathize sincerely with the
priest who would attempt to change it.

The body is always carried to the church in an open coffin, accompanied only by
the men in procession. I was told that the reason was that the women were
supposed to have already made enough noise at the house. On one occasion, a
couple of oxen got startled by the band, and darted out with their cart from the
waiting line, causing considerable confusion and alarm in the procession. Before
we had gone far, a tropical downpour started, and it was of little use to hold
umbrellas over the open coffin. Before we reached the church, we had to paddle
through several inches of water in some places, and when I got back home, on
foot, the compound was under a foot of water.

The rough shaking that the body of the deceased receives when the coffin is
shoved up on the catafalque is unpleasant to see, but nobody ever seems to
remark it. The usual church service goes along, with frequent halts for things
which have not been prepared. At the grave, the cloths are taken from under the
head of the deceased, which is then shaken or pushed down to allow the coffin
lid to be put in place. After the prayers, the priests put each a ladle-full of
lime on the breast of the corpse, and the family and friends follow suit, so
that the whole body is soon covered with lime. When one of our teachers was
buried in our graveyard, every one of the school boys seemed to consider it a
sacred duty to throw a handful of earth into the grave.

Such are some of the funeral customs in this part of the world. My own
experience is rather limited, and after a longer sojourn I may be able to add
considerably to the above notes. But what I have jotted down will show how
different in many respects the customs of these people are from our own, and how
they need to be educated to an appreciation of sanitation and propriety, two
important elements of civilization.

HERBERT J. PARKER, S.J.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
