### Advanced Locality Management

Minutes of the All Bandra ALM Meeting held at 10.30 am. on Sunday 29th.
Feb. 2004 at Bosco Hall, St. Andrew's Church.

The meeting was attended by fifteen members representing eleven ALMs.

Chaya Carvalho & Beryl Lobo of Rajaram Wadi, started the ball rolling
with the basic question on how an ALM gets started.

Jenifer Mirza, who had just registered their ALM at Rizvi Complex a few
months ago, shared her experience.

Marie Paul, of D'Monte Park Road had got their ALM registered more
recently and also added some more information on the subject.

For the benefit of all those interested, the points are listed below:.

-   -get together a few committed people, concerned with the welfare of
    the neighbourhood.
-   -appoint a core committee and a coordinator who will be the contact
    person.
-   -hold regular monthly meetings (or more frequently initially)
-   -prepare a list of problem areas in the locality.
-   -prepare a list of buildings/bungalows and the number of households
    in each.
-   -organise the segregation of wet and dry waste and ensure compliance
    by the residents.
-   -Select a suitable name for your ALM & address a letter to the BMC
    H/W Ward, with all the above details requesting registration
    (ordinarily done by the Complaints Officer).

It was pointed out that the ALM concept was mainly a Waste Management
initiative, to help the BMC who in return, would give priority to the
civic problems in these areas. Among the participants were Dr. Vijay
Dalvi & Mr. Flavian Frank, whose success in waste management in their
respective societies was recognized. A workshop on waste management was
proposed at some subsequent date.

Some of the members felt that in the past few months the BMC has
selectively attended to the storm water drains and roads, with the
corporators' help. Mr. Felix Fernandes said that this was more with the
elections in mind, and people should not be taken in. A discussion on
the ploys adopted by various parties, ensued which remained
inconclusive. But the interest generated by the discussion, prompted the
inclusion of ELECTIONS as the main topic for the agenda of the next
meeting.
