\

**The Andrean Social Service Centre**

\
The Andrean Social Service Centre has been in existence for more than
twenty years, ever since a group of parishioners, at the request of our
Parish Priest, visited an area where several needy families had made
their homes. Working together with the Community Health Centre of Holy
Family Hospital, they have tried to help uplift underprivileged children
and their families. Great emphasis has been laid on education and
health, besides bringing about an awareness of moral values, hygiene and
also small savings schemes. At present, the hundreds of children who
attend the tuition classes every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, are
taught arts and crafts during the holidays and are encouraged to display
their talents in dance and song whenever possible.  Outings to various
places of interest are always greeted with great enthusiasm. Medical
facilities are available at Holy Family Hospital, to all the families
who belong to this programme. The Dental check-ups and the follow up
treatment, organized by dentists from the Parish, were very
well-attended. Regular Parent-Teacher meetings and visits to their
homes, bring about a warm feeling of cooperation and understanding and
with more volunteers to lend a helping hand, a great deal could be
achieved.  We appeal to anyone who is willing to share their time and
expertise, to come forward and help support and strengthen the efforts
of the A.S.S.C.

The Andrean Social Service Centre is responsible for aiding
underprivileged children with their education. Mrs. Yvonne Rosario
started this Centre. She is still very actively involved with it\'s
functioning. This Centre holds classes for school children of all ages.
These classes are held daily from 5 - 8 pm at St. Andrew\'s Primary
School. There are many people from our parish who have come forward to
teach at these classes.

 

The main aim of this Centre is to uplift these children through the
medium of education. Tuitions are provided free of cost to the children
and all the problems they may have, relating to their studies is sorted
out. They also can get books, textbooks etc. here. There are classes
held in both the English as well as Marathi mediums. These classes
really do benefit these children. In fact, the recent SSC results
reflected their success. Out of the 7 students who appeared for the SSC
exam, 6 passed, one securing a Distinction and five securing a second
class.

 

If there is any assistance you can provide, in the form of books,
textbooks or teaching assistance, please meet Mrs. Rosario at the School
from 5 - 7 pm.

\
