The Salesian Sisters of Don Bosco established the Auxilium Centre in
Bandra in the year 1988. With our presence over here and or
understanding if the neighborhood we have realized that there are a
number of young girls from the tribal pockets of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh,
Jharkhand, Chattisgarh and Bengal who come to Mumbai in search of
employment as domestics. Many of them come on their own or with others
and in the first few days live in very insecure and unsafe situations.
We the sisters are in the process of exploring the possibility of
assisting these girls to finds a secure and safe employment.

\

We also have Self-help Affinity Groups. A SAG is generally small,
homogenous and related by affinity. It is a group whose members use
Savings, Credit and Social involvement as instruments of empowerment.

\

We are following the MYRDA System. (Mysore Resettlement and Development
Agency). They are working not only in India but also in other parts of
the world.

To organize poor families and bring them into Institution.

To create saving habits to build their own capital.

To enhance the level of awareness on the concept of development and
available programmes in Govt. Department.

To encourage them to learn literacy and Numeracy.

To build awareness on women's rights and gender equality.

To create a common platform to discuss their problems and to find
solutions.

To create an opportunity to get loans timely and easily.

To make them involved with village development activities.

To enhance their leadership qualities.

To make them utilize locally available resources.

\

They meet every week, take decisions at meetings, manage credit,
identify poor and priority to poorest to meet their needs, initiate
community and social action program in the village, address and solve
problems, maintain required books of accounts, forge linkages with banks
and Government Departments, organize training and awareness programmes,
organize exposures with other SAGs, monitor credit utilization, ensure
regular repayment of loans and initiate credit plus activities.

\

For further information kindly contact Sr. Jean -- 26414225
