The Synod of the Archdiocese of Bombay thought that the "Archdiocesan
Biblical Committee can strive to interest more of our lay faithful to
read, pray and study the Bible, as well as assist them towards an
authentic interpretation of it."

\

At the level of the Parish, the structure entrusted with the
responsibility of the Promotion of the Bible in this manner, is the
Bible Cell.

\

In early 2001 the PPC of St, Andrew's, prompted by its members, created
the Bible Cell under the leadership of Mr. Joe Fernandes who had done
the MOW and shared with the Parish Priest and his assistants the
responsibility for the Promotion of the Bible as the Word of God and a
source of life.

\

From the inception, the Cell comprised of a total of 13 members, which
included among others, Dr. Renu Silvano, Sr. Fides and several
laypersons who had done the MOW.

\

The members meet once a month, normally on the 2^nd^ Tuesday of the
month in Room No. 7 at 6:30 p.m. to suggest, discuss and plan activities
for the month ahead.

\

In mid 2002, Msgr. Hilary Rodrigues was assigned to the Cell and in
September with the help of Dr. Renu a "Basic Bible Seminar" was
conducted at the Bosco Hall that was attended by 50 lay faithful and was
termed a success.

\

As a consequence of this seminar a Bible Study session for interested
laypersons is being conducted on the 2^nd^ Tuesday of every month after
the members meet in Room No. 4 at 7:30 p.m., which normally concludes at
around 8:30p.m.

\

Bishop Bosco Penha, who holds a Deanery meet of all the Bible Cell
animators once in 3 months, heads the Archdiocesan Committee. The last
meet was held in September.

\

In April this year Mr. Joe Fernandes resigned from the Cell and the
overall membership has declined to 6. However, 2 new members have
indicated their interest to join in the last Bible Study Session.

\

For further information, please contact Roy Lobo -- 26422530.

\
