![](carlisle.jpg){#Graphic1 align="LEFT" border="0"}\
\
CURRYING FAVOR WITH CARLISLE

The stage was set. The audience restless. The Andrean Fair 1980.. or was
it 81? The year didn't matter. It was one of those mega event ones. The
one that used it's benefactor's generosity to raise money for something
big, like a hospital. Waiting in the wings, about to perform a solo act
for the evening, was this teenage kid eager to make her tiny mark in the
world of entertainment -- Parish level entertainment -- but
entertainment to a large audience nevertheless -- which to a kid of 17
is hitting the big time anyway.

\

"Just go get 'em'girl" whispered Carlisle Curry, veteran Master of
Ceremonies to the kid. 'I'll give you this big introduction, and then
ask you if you want to be a star. Just say 'yes'. And then, when I ask
you 'What if someone tells you you're not star material, just say 'Then,
I'll make them see stars" -- that'll get you a few laughs and that's a
sure way you endear yourself to your audience. Words of advice from one
of Bandra's most loved Emcees.

\

A week before he is about to turn 92, I meet him at his home. Around him
are cuttings of articles, copies of books he has written and other
assorted faded memories of days gone by. "Tell me about you", I urge
him. We all know that you did a lot for the Salesian Past Pupils
Association, or that you emceed the zonals for a record of time, or that
you made so many couples happy by compering their weddings...

\

The once popular voice is now barely a whisper as he traces his amazing
life story -- with a twist of Oliver. Having lost his mother at the age
of 2 years and 7 months, his father raised him till he was six. Then, as
he recalls, "My father took me to an orphanage in Bellary, Karnataka run
by the Mill fathers and the Hospitaler Sisters. He left me there and I
never saw him again. It was only when I was 10 or 11 that I was informed
by the Principal of the Orphanage that he had received a letter from my
step mother, which means that my father had married again." Just at that
time, young Carlisle left the orphanage to spend a holiday with the
Hospitaler sisters in Mount Mary Convent, Mumbai. Within a week, the
sisters received a letter from the Superior telling the sisters that
they should not bring him back as they had abolished the orphanage. Thus
began his tryst with the place that he now calls home, Bandra.

\

Till this time, Carlisle was unaware that he was the offspring of a
mixed marriage -- A Catholic Father and a Protestant mother, and that he
was baptized in a Protestant church in Calcutta. The orphanage in which
he was admitted had no record of this. So he was brought up a Catholic
and continued to live as a Catholic in Bandra till 1924. While in
Bandra, he was inspired by a priest named Msgr Dominic D'sa. It was this
priest who together with a fellow priest named Fr Henry Remedios and
Mother Superoior of Mount Mary's who were instrumental in making him a
Roman Catholic. Writes Mr Curry in an article about himself, "I was made
a Roman Catholic by a conditional baptism privately in St Andrew's
Church. My godfather was Msgr D'Sa and my Godmother was Our Lady of the
Mount. Being a full fledged catholic, I was God's own child. I shared
with friends the joy and elation of this momentous event and the God
given gift which I considered so meaningful to me".

\

Another twist of fate brought him under the wing of a Salesian priest
named Fr Tornquist. Thus begun his long standing association with the
Salesians including an appointment by the Salesians in Rome to initiate
a Don Bosco Past Pupil's Association in Bombay. As President of the Don
Bosco Past Pupil's Association, he traveled extensively to the
Phillipines, HongKong, Belgium, Spain and of course, Rome which he
proudy informs me, he visited at least seven times.

\

All this wealth of experience from a self taught and self made person
made Carlisle Curry an institution in his own right in the community of
St Andrew's. He was for fourteen years a member of the Legion of Mary in
addition to being the editor of the 'Andrean Notes' for almost 42 years
besides being the driving force behind the zonals for 33 years. His
zealous pre-occupation with the Parish of St Andrew's prompted him to
notice what he calls a 'phenomenon' with regards to the church edifice.
Says Carlisle, "After three years of watching as to why the sun shines
in the church, I discovered that ultimately the sun shone on the arch
stone of the arch inside the church, so I felt that I had discovered a
'Phenomenon' which I thought would occur each year on the 21^st^ of
March -- the vernal equinox. Then I saw it again on the 22^nd^ of
September exactly at 7:00 o'clock -- of course, my assumption was right
-- it was the Autumnal Equinox.And it can be seen even now on the 21^st^
of March and the 22^nd^ of September."

\

\

So much for his love for the Parish of St Andrew's and thankfully the
legacy he leaves behind is still carried on by some of his offspring --
and their offspring who are still around.

\

The curtain still hasn't come down on this nonagerian who continues to
endear the new generation of Curry's be it with his stamp collection of
'55,000' stamps or stories of days gone by.

\

And as for that kid who stepped out into the stage to claim her moment
in the sun at the Andrean Fair, encouraged by one who had his share of
limelight - she set the stage alight with a fire kindled by one of
Bandra's most cherished compere -- Carlisle Curry.

\

I know this story to be true. That kid was me.

\

ANNABELLE FERRO DESYLVA

\

If you need to contact Mr Curry, you can reach him at Sealite, 9^th^
Road, Behind 'God's Gift' -- Professor Almeida Park, Bandra. Tel
26423702. He turned 92 on the 26^th^ of June 2004.
