The Civic and Political Cell of the parish, was inaugurated on the 30th
April 2001.  At this meeting, the aims of the cell were spelt out viz.

1\. To take on the role of conscientising our communities on how they
could tackle local issues, rather than depending on others to solve
their problems, and

2\. To encourage involvement in political affairs, the election process,
conducting \'know your candidate\' meetings etc.

At a subsequent meeting, Mr Robert Serrao, of  I. C.Parish, Borivali,
who was the archdiocesean coordinator of Civic and Political cells, gave
us some guidelines on how the cell should function.  Other members of
his team, Mr. Willie Shirsat & Mr. Joe Corda, provided valuable inputs 

Among their suggestions were the following:

-form of core team of seven or eight members preferably those already
involved socially, politically, or working with some NGO.

-start networking with AGNI, Bombay Catholics Sabha, Residents assns.
etc.

-put up a separate notice board, to announce the activities of the
cell..

During the last municipal elections, the cell took on the massive task
of updating the voters list, in coordination with AGNI. Members went
around each area and enlisted the eligible voters, and new voters

One of the projects currently underway is to create awareness in every
family, about the segregate wet and dry waste and to encourage them to
adopt methods for the composting of wet waste. With this in mind, the
cell set up a stall during the Andrean Fiesta, to promote Solid Waste
Management.

Many of our members are active in their ALM groups and attend the
monthly meetings at the BMC ward office.  The cell hopes to tap their
rich experience in spreading Civic and political awareness in the
parish.

(Update as on 30th April 2004.)

Demolition of Crossed & Shrines

The Cell spearheaded the campaign against the demolition of crosses and
shrines not only in the parish but also in the surrounding parishes in
the deanery: by making representations to the BMC, collection of old
records for presentation in court by the Catholic Sabha, conscientizing
the parishioners on how to resist any threatened demolition.

Electoral Rolls:

Created awareness on the procedure for updating the voters\' lists, the
dates, timings and addresses of the various centres for additions
,deletions and corrections etc.

Campaign for Secular Candidates

Organised speakers from \'Insaniyat\" to address parishioners after area
masses on the dangers of voting for candidates put up by communal
parties.

ALM Activity

Formed an ALM support Group aimed at nurturing new and intending
activists to establish ALMs in their areas. The group is open to people
of all faiths and meets on the last Sunday of every month in the Bosco
Hall.

For further information please contact Valerian Fernandes - 26409416
