The Health Cell was started in January 2001 as a follow up of the Arch
Diocesan Circular asking parishes to form health cells.

The Health Cell started functioning with 10 members. Fr. Vincent Pereira
was made the Spiritual Director and Mr. Ashley Nazareth the Coordinator.
'

\

Presently the Health Cell has 26 members, 3 of which (Sr. Georgia, Sr.
Kusum and Sr. Nives) are from the Holy Family Hospital.

The Health cell meeting is held on the second Monday of the month. The
attendance is good; about 12 --13 members attend regularly. The Cell has
made good progress in spite of its initial ups and downs. The present
Spiritual Director is Fr. Hilary Rodrigues and the Secretary is Leonie
Gomes.

\

The Vision Statement for the Health Cell is "Networking of the Holistic
Health Model" vis a healthy mind leads to a healthy body. The Cell is
striving to achieve its goal, starting from grass root levels to the
Parish level, by conducting talks and Seminars on various health related
topics and focusing on the prevention of diseases, rather than cure and
reaching out to the poor and needy in our Parish.

\

Yoga classes were started in our Parish a year ago. The classes are held
in the Bosco Hall thrice a week after the 6 a.m. mass. There were the
usual teething problems in the beginning but they now have a very good
response. Nearly 20 -- 25 members attend regularly. There is a nominal
fee of Rs. 100/- per month, which is used for maintenance of the room
and other expenses buying equipment. Anita who conducts the classes
keeps the expenses. The Cell also makes available medical appliances
like crutches, walking sticks, wheel chairs, walkers etc. for the use of
any parishioner, especially the needy. A list of items and the names and
phone numbers if the parishioners with whom the items are available are
put up on the Notice Board.

\

For further information, please contact Rosalind D'Souza --26427050
