Early history

Historical background and other Information on St Andrew Church, Bandra

The Beginning Of The Catholic Faith In Bandra

\
\

[Baptisms](#baptisms%7Cregion)

[Church Buildings](#ChurchBldg%7Cregion)\
a) [Santa Anna (St. Anne) Church](#SantaAnna%7Cregion)\
b) [St. Andrew Church](#StAndrew%7Cregion)\
c) [Other Churches](#otherChurches%7Cregion)

FEATURES OF ST. ANDREW CHURCH\
1. [The Church Building](#ChurchStructure%7Cregion)\
2. [The Altars](#altar%7Cregion)\
3. [The Pulpit](#pulpit%7Cregion)\
4. [Wood Panels](#woodPanels%7Cregion)\
5. [The Bells](#bells%7Cregion)\
6. [An Ancient Monolithic Cross](#Cross%7Cregion)\
7. [An Historic Statue](#statue%7Cregion)\
8. [The Sunlight in the Church \...](#sunlight%7Cregion)\
\
IMPORTANT EVENTS IN THE LIFE OF THE PARISH\
1. [The Consecration of Bandra to Christ the
King](#Consecration%7Cregion)\
2. [Visits of Statues of the Blessed Virgin Mary to St. Andrew
Parish](#virginMary%7Cregion)\
\
\

[RELIGIOUS ORDERS / CONGREGATIONS WITHIN ST. ANDREW PARISH CATHOLIC
INSTITUTIONS WITHIN ST. ANDREW PARISH](#orgs%7Cregion)

The Beginning Of The Catholic Faith In Bandra

1\. Baptisms

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

As mentioned earlier Bandra came into the possession of the Jesuits in
the year 1570. In a letter written on 15th December, 1575, a Jesuit says
that there are three of them in Bandra and that 200 persons had been
baptized in that year. In 1580, over 2000 were baptized and in 1616
there were 6000 Catholics in Bandra - nearly the entire population.

The new Christians assumed the surname of the Priest who baptized them
or of the sponsor. Other aspects of their life did not change, e.g. they
continued to speak their dialect of Marathi, carried on with their
traditional occupations, dress, diet, etc. The reports of those days
extol the faith of the Christians of Bandra.

2\. Church Buildings

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

The first Oratory to be built in Bandra was the one on a hill which is
now the renowned \'Mount Mary\'. This oratory was built by the Jesuits
in around 1573.

Between 1577 and 1583, the Jesuits built a residence by the creek with a
Chapel attached, which served as a parish Church. However, it was not a
parish Church in the strict sense of the term, as the Jesuit Catalogue
for this year states that Fr. Manoel Gomes S.J. was \'in charge\'. A few
years later, (certainly by the year 1590), it became a parish Church,
for we are informed that Fr. Gomes is its Vicar.

a\) Santa Anna (St. Anne) Church

![](santannacolor.gif){#Graphic1 align="LEFT" width="299" height="180"
border="0"}\
\
\

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

Fr. Nuno Rodrigues S.J., who was the Jesuit Provincial from 1597 - 1602
ordered the new parish Church of Bandra to be built. This Church was
dedicated to St. Anne and was built adjacent to the Jesuit residence
which was situated south of where the present BEST depot is - next to
the Bandra Railway Station. The Church stood on the Bandra side of the
creek facing St. Michael Church which stood on the Mahim side of the
creek.

We have a description of this Church in the Jesuit report of 1669. It
says, \"in the island of Salsette, there is a church under the
invocation of St. Anne. The village is in the lowest (the southern most)
path of the island at the point nearest to the island of Mahim. This
church is very old and is one of the most beautiful in these parts; it
is also very big, although the faithful became so numerous, that the
Fathers of the Society had to build another church under the invocation
of St. Andrew near the sea. Notwithstanding this, the parish of St. Anne
had 3000 faithful. On the church of St. Anne, depended the hermitage of
Our Lady of the Mount. The feast is celebrated each year on the 8th of
September, the feast of the Nativity of Our Lady. The Parish Priest of
St. Anne\'s goes there every week (on Wednesdays) to say Mass for the
people who flock there in great numbers out of devotion to their
Mother\".

The St. Anne Church was dynamited by the English engineers on 25th
March, 1739. What was the reason for this? During the Maratha-Portuguese
war (1737-1739) the English feared that if the Marathas captured Bandra
they would have a strategic location along side the creek and on the
hill at Bandra. From these places they could fire at the English who
were at the Mahim side of the creek. Their position would be stronger if
they captured St. Anne Church for it was with a fortification equipped
with guns. Therefore, the English were of the opinion that it should be
destroyed and insisted on it being done before they helped the
Portuguese against the Marathas.

(St. Andrew Church, Bandra, possesses two treasures from the extinct St.
Anne Church : A 17 foot monolithic Cross and a Baptismal Register -
details of which can be found elsewhere on this website)

b\)

St. Andrew Church

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

Centuries ago the present St. Andrew Church was a hermitage. We do not
know the year of its foundation but we know that it existed in 1601, for
in that year, Pope Clement VIII, \"granted an indulgence of 20 years and
40 days to the faithful who, after going to confession and receiving
Holy Communion, would visit on Maundy Thursday, from the rising of the
sun to its setting on the following day, the hermitages of Mount Mary\'s
and St. Andrew\'s\".

In the year 1616, as the Church of St. Anne had 6000 parishioners, a new
parish was formed, that of St. Andrew. Perhaps, it was at this time that
a church replaced the hermitage.

In 1739, when St. Anne Church was destroyed, St. Andrew Church was the
only Church in Bandra and the parish comprised of the entire Bandra and
the adjacent areas. During the Maratha period (1739-1775) St. Andrew
Church continued to function as usual. In fact, it was the venue of the
ordination of a Bishop - the earliest in Bombay as far as the records
go.

\
\

c\) Other Churches

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

In the 19th century, St. Peter Church and Mount Carmel Church were
built. Initially, these churches did not have a territorial parish but a
personal jurisdiction.

In the 20th century, the following parishes were carved out of St.
Andrew parish :

¨ St. Theresa, Bandra ¨ St. Anne, Pali Hill, Bandra ¨ St. Vincent de
Paul, Chuim, Bandra, now in Khar

(from the Notes of Fr. Larry Pereira)

\
FEATURES OF ST. ANDREW CHURCH

The Church Building

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

The original dimensions of the church were 100 feet in length and 42
feet in breadth. Originally the church did not have a porch. However, a
large wooden, artistic porch was added in the year 1890, which was
subsequently demolished in 1965.

In 1965, the façade of the church was demolished and the church was
extended by 75 feet thus giving it a length of 175 feet. The new façade
was a replica of the old one. This was the first major alteration in the
many centuries of the church\'s existence. This extension was blessed
and opened by His Eminence Valerian Cardinal Gracias, Archbishop of
Bombay on 20th February, 1996. This extension was possible due to the
determination and untiring efforts of the Parish Priest, Msgr. George
Fernandes.

\
\

The Altars

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

The original main altar had the twelve apostles. St. Andrew was given
the first place. This altar was destroyed by white ants and was replaced
by the present altar in 1906 - \"built on a brick base paved with marble
and which extends almost to the roof\". The present altar has three
niches - the Sacred Heart and our Lady in the two outer niches with the
statue of St. Andrew in the central niche. Above these are three smaller
niches with statues of St. John the Baptist and St. Sebastian and the
third one a little higher containing the statue of the Bom Jesu.

Both the side altars are the original altars built of wood in the
sixteenth century, carved and painted in the popular Portuguese style of
that period called the Flamboyant. The north side altar has the statue
of the Blessed Virgin Mary with Baby Jesus in her left arm.

\
\

The Pulpit

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

The beautifully carved pulpit is of great historical significance as
well, since it is also the original one of the sixteenth century. Carved
to resemble a flower on a stalk it has seven sepals that turn outward
and are held together by angels. On each petal is a carving representing
the prophets of the Old Testament. Above hangs a canopy with the Holy
Spirit in the form of a dove carved on it. Old parishioners remember the
stone steps leading to the pulpit from the outside which were demolished
and walled in when the church was being extended and steps built from
the inside of the church, necessitating the removal of two of the
beautifully carved panels.

\
\

Wood Panels

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

Two original wood panels above the two front doors depicting the
Resurrection of Christ and the Assumption of Mary Immaculate are also of
sixteenth century origin. The Resurrection scene shows Christ trampling
over death represented by a skeleton that is wasted and rotted, thus
showing the triumph of Christ\'s redemption of mankind over death and
sin. The Assumption of Our Lady into heaven is depicted by a crown held
over head by the hands of God, the Father and God the Son, while the
Holy Spirit hovers above. It is interesting to note that the
representation of the Assumption of Our Lady was already part of
religious art even before the dogma of the Assumption became the
Magisterium of the church. (See \'Pictorials\' for a visual of the
panels)

\
\

The Bells

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

On either side of the façade the two towers which originally flanked it
were demolished and new ones, having stained glass windows were built
with the new façade when the church was extended. The base of the north
tower now accommodates the stairway to the choir. The base o the other
two houses the Baptistery whose stained glass window has been recently
restored. The bells that was first kept in the window facing east is the
oldest. It bears the inscription \"SANTRO ANDRE DE BANDORA, 1793\"
around the outside of the rim and on the body is a cross in an oval. It
was used to announce deaths, arrival of funerals at the church and on
All Souls Day. The bell that was kept in the window facing north has the
inscription partly in Portuguese and partly in English : SANTO DE ANDRE
BANDORA, 1869. RECAST 1900\". This was used for the Angelus and to
summon the faithful to service and on festive occasions. The largest
bell in the center of the belfry is of more recent origin, being
presented in 1934 by Sir Dominic Joseph Ferreira, K.C.S.S. in memory of
his wife Josephine. It was cast by Gossen Von Humpert, Brilon, and was
used daily at 8.30 p.m. \"to remind the faithful to pray for the
departed souls, for the Angelus, and on festive occasions\". All three
bells are now in the new north tower.

(Nos. 1 - 5 are extracts from \'Andrean Panorama, 1997\')

An Ancient Monolithic Cross

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

One of the largest and oldest Crosses in Mumbai and the adjoining areas,
stands in the compound of St. Andrew Church, Bandra. It is situated
adjacent to the southern wall (Hill Road side), south of the church
façade and west of the Grotto.

This Cross is 17 feet in height and is carved from a single block of
stone. The sides of the Cross that face the west and east have carvings
of symbols from the Old Testament and the New Testament. (See
\'Pictorials\' for a visual of the Cross)

This Cross was originally in the compound of the extinct St. Anne
Church - the first Church of Bandra (details of which are given above).
After this Church was destroyed in 1739, this Cross was shifted to St.
Andrew Church compound. In 1870, it was installed on a high pedestal
where it remains till today.

This monolithic centuries-old Cross symbolises the Catholic faith in
Bandra.

An Historic Statue

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

One of the \'side altars\' of St. Andrew Church, Bandra, has a niche
with a large wooden statue of Mary carrying the Child Jesus. This statue
is not particularly graceful or artistic but it is of historical value.

The Annual Jesuit letter of the year 1669 tells us that it is an image
of \'Our Lady of the Navigators\' . Initially one may be surprised at
this title for the statue does not have any symbol of or association
with \'navigation\'.

However, the Jesuit letter explicitly states the fishermen found a
statue in the sea, off the Bandra coast. Perhaps, this statue was
enshrined in a Portuguese ship and fell into the sea during a storm or
shipwreck.

This is the only statue that was found in the sea according to records
presently available. It is likely, according to a writer, that this fact
has been transferred to the statue of Our Lady of the Mount.

The statue of Our Lady of Navigators on the side altar of St. Andrew
Church, Bandra had a silver crown, which was stolen a few decades ago.
This crown had an inscription, which was quite intriguing. It read \"In
the Samvat year 1816 on the 8th day of the waning moon (after full moon)
in the month of Shravan (August-September) two silver crowns were made
for Nossa Senhora do Monte and the child by Dharma Patel, Thalkai, Koli,
Naratha, in fulfillment of a promise made through Vaghset. D. 1760\"
(please note that 1816 according to the Samvat year is approximately
equivalent to 1760 of the Christian era.)

Although this crown was presented for use on the statue of Our Lady of
Navigators, and made keeping that size in mind, yet the inscription says
that it was made for the statue of Our Lady of the Mount (which would
need a smaller crown). Did the donor make a mistake? Was Our Lady of
Navigators also referred to as Our Lady of the Mount? No satisfactory
explanation has been offered for this.

The Sunlight in the Church \...

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

In the center of the façade is a small hole just above the statue of St.
Andrew, which you may not have noticed, or never given a thought as to
why it was there. Its purpose: to let the rising sun shine through the
church to give us a Solar Phenomenon which has been researched and
documented by Carlisle Curry presented in a Supplement to the Andrean
Notes of 1st July, 1989.

This phenomenon is 390 years old and still occurs twice a year on the
days of the Equinox. Inside the church the sun shines on the keystone of
the arch inside the church which separates the sanctuary from the main
altar exactly at 7 a.m. on 21st and 22nd March (the Vernal Equinox) and
on 22nd and 23rd September (Autumnal Equinox). This phenomenon still
occurs twice every year.

(An extract from \'Andrean Panorama, 1997\', pg. 10)

IMPORTANT EVENTS

IN THE LIFE OF THE PARISH

\
\

The Consecration of Bandra to Christ the King

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

The idea of consecrating Bandra to Christ the King was initiated by the
Very Rev. Fr. Dominic de Sa (Parish Priest, St. Andrew Church) who
received the fullest co-operation from the Vicar of St. Peter\'s Church,
Fr. Cassassayas, S.J. and Fr. John Gomes, Vicar of Mount Carmel\'s
Church. Preparations for the occasion were started months ahead with the
formation of an Organising Committee. On the evening before the great
day an Academy on the Kingship of Christ presided over by H.E. The
Delegate Apostolic, the Most Rev. Dr. Leo R. Kierkels, C.P. was held in
St. Peter\'s Church compound. The Archbishop of Bombay, the Most Rev.
Dr. Joaquim R. Lima, S.J. and the Prefect Apostolic of Kashmir, Msgr.
Joseph Donohoe also graced the occasion.

On Sunday, 3rd February, 1935, the Delegate Apostolic sang the
Pontifical High Mass in St. Andrew Church, after which the Blessed
Sacrament was exposed for continuous adoration. The evening service was
one of unparalleled splendour and magnificence with about 20,000 people
participating. After the sermon by Rev. Dr. L. Raymond the Blessed
Sacrament was borne in procession along Hill Road southward to Supali
(Supari) Tank for Benediction. The procession continued along Chapel
Road, St. Peter\'s Road and Hall Road, back to St. Andrew\'s. The
Delegate Apostolic gave the sermon on Christ the King; then the Act of
Consecration was read by Ref. Fr. D. de Sa. After Benediction the crowds
were regaled to a display of fireworks. The monument to commemorate this
event was designed by Mrs. Lourdes Netto and the pedestal by Mr. Robert
Athogias. A special hymn to \"Christ the King\" was composed by Mr.
Sally Athogias.

The Silver Jubilee of this event was celebrated on 7th February 1960.
Fifty motorcyclists and scooters from Bandra escorted His Eminence
Valerian Cardinal Gracias, from Mahim Causeway to St. Andrew Church
where His Eminence was received by the parish Priest, Papal Knights and
papal Medallists who led the procession into the Church while the choir
sang \"Ecce Sacrdos Magnus\". After Pontifical Mass sung by His
Eminence, the Blessed Sacrament was exposed for adoration the whole day.
The evening ceremony was yet another memorable occasion. The procession
with the Blessed Sacrament on a decorated float led to St. Peter\'s
Church compound for Benediction, then along Chapel Road to Mount
Carmel\'s Church compound and back to St. Andrew\'s along Mount Carmel
Road and Hill Road. After the sermon by His Eminence, Msgr. Henry
Remedios read the Act of Consecration. Benediction of the Blessed
Sacrament brought the ceremony to a close.

(Pg. 31 - 32 ; \'St. Andrew\'s Church, Bandra\'. Souvenir published in
February 1966, on the occasion of the extension of the church)

Visits of Statues of the Blessed Virgin Mary to St. Andrew Parish

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

Our Lady of Fatima

The visit of the statue of Our Lady of Fatima to Bandra on May 6, 1950,
was an event of unforgettable and unsurpassed grandeur. St. Andrew High
School grounds was a dream in neon and fluorescence.

The 2-mile long torch-light procession of about 60,000 persons to the
Shrine of Our Lady of the Mount, chanting the Rosary and the Ave, the
infinite beauty of the Magnificat at her enthronement in the
Archdiocese, the glorious solemnity of the Pontifical High Mass, the
edifying sermon with our silent affirmation of it, all these must surely
have caused a downpour of graces on us below.

Our Lady of the Mount

Our parish was first bearing away the statue of Our Lady of the mount
from the Shrine on 7th October, 1954 at the start of the \"Mission of
Mercy\", and the last in taking it back.

On 1st December, members of all confraternities and sodalities of our
parish received the statue from the Church of Mount Carmel and the
procession wended its way through the decorated Veronica Street, Waroda
Road, Hill Road, St. Paul Road, Perry Cross Road, into Cantawadi Schme,
through Chimbai Village to St. Andrew Church.

It was placed in the centre of the sanctuary before the main altar for
veneration which continued throughout the following day until 6.30 p.m.
when thousands thronged to escort Our Lady back to her throne on the
Hill.

(Pg. 31 & 33; \'St. Andrew\'s Church, Bandra\'. Souvenir published in
February 1966, on the occasion of the extension of the church)

RELIGIOUS ORDERS / CONGREGATIONS WITHIN ST. ANDREW PARISH

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

1\. Apostolic Carmelites (AC) :

¨Carmel Convent 2642-4021

¨Provincialate 2644-3710

2\. Daughters of Mary Help of Christians :

¨Provincialate (FMA) 2641-4225

3\. Franciscan Hospitallers (FHIC) :

¨Mt. Mary\'s Convent 2642-2036

¨Provincialate 2642-2374

4\. Holy Family Sisters of Nazareth (SFN) 2642-2095

5\. Missionary Society of the Sacred Heart of Jesus (MSCJ) 2642-7336

6\. Pious Disciples of the Divine Master (PDDM) 2642-2437

7\. Poor Sisters of Our Lady (PSOL) 2642-2971

8\. Sisters of the Holy Cross, Menzigen (OSF) 2642-7464

9\. Sisters of St. Aloysius Gonzaga (SLG) 2642-5736

10\. Sisters of St. Ann (SA) 2642-6279

11\. Society of Jesus (S.J.) 2642-2095 2645-5296

12\. Ursulines of Mary Immaculate (UMI) 2643-0458\
\
\

CATHOLIC INSTITUTIONS WITHIN ST. ANDREW PARISH

[Top of Page](#top%7Cregion)

1\. ST. ANDREW CHURCH

115, Hill Road, Bandra, Mumbai 400 050

E-mail : standrew@vsnl.com 2642-3680 2642-7840

2\. Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Rehabilitation Office (Diocesan) 2640-5405
2643-295

3\. Apostolic Carmel High School (AC) 2642-8028

4\. Basilica of Our Lady of the Mount (Diocesan) 2642-3152

5\. Catholic Enquiry Center (Parish) 2642-3680

6\. Clergy Home (Diocesan/PSOL) 2642-2971

7\. Diocesan Pastoral Centre (Diocesan) 2642-2556 2643-1384 2644-1200
2651-4888

8\. Fatima Hostel for Women (SLG) 2642-5736 2642-38412642-3842

9\. Holy Family Hospital (UMI) 2640-8857 2642-3777 2642-1992

10\. Retreat House (Jeevanvikas Sadan - SJ) 2642-2095

11\. Mount Mary High School and Girls\' Boarding (FHIC) 2644-3943

12\. Prarthanalaya (Chapel, Liturgical Art Centre & Noviciate) 2642-2437

13\. St. Andrew High School 2642-3144

14\. St. Andrew Junior College of Arts, Science & Commerce 2640-1657

15 St. Andrew Degree College of Arts and Commerce 2640-1657 2642-8684

16\. St. Andrew Open School Centre 2640-1657

17\. St. Catherine of Sienna Home for Destitute Children 2642-2859

18\. St. Catherine of Sienna Primary School 2642-2859

19\. Shanti Avedna Ashram (managed by OSF) 2642-7464 2645-1702

Top of Page

Information from various sources and archives and courtesy of Clarence
Fernandes and Fr Larry Pereira; Information taken from the book
\'Bandra - the Catholic Heritage\' in publication.

\
\
