### 

Sodalities

Among the Parish organisations, the various Sodalities are an important
group of activities that through the years have fostered the spiritual
development of our parishioners. The website will be posting information
on these sodalities, some more active than others at the present time,
their background, focus and activities. The information presented below
is from the various Parish publications and we apologise if some
information is not current. We intend to update this as soon as we have
the material.

Men\'s Sodality

Established in 1933, with the Rev. Fr D. De Sa as the first Director and
Fr Henry J Remedios as Assistant Director.The main activities were
literary and the promotion of Catholic literature.. Under Mgr George
Fernandes in the 1960s the Sodality played a more active role, assisting
the Parish Priest in community activities like collections, census
activities and the Catholic Enquiry Centre as also the Church Ushers.

Ladies\' Sodality

Founded on December 8th, 1920 under the patronage of Our Lady of the
Immaculate Conception and St Anne this sodlaity is involved with various
Church activities besides spiritual endeavours. From Church Support fund
raising to the Burse collection to the altar and church decorations the
Ladies\' Sodality has been a pillar of the Church, assisting the Parish
Priest through the years.

There are three sections of the Ladies\' Sodality, the English, Konkani
(1947; Mgr Macario Pereira) and Marathi (1962; Mgr George Fernandes)
sections, all very dedicated and active in the service of parish
activities.Presently these organisations are doing valuable work helping
in such areas as Mission Sunday collections and Street Children
assistance programs.
