The S.C.C. of St. Leo Road is fairly large, consisting of about 70
families. It is an extremely close-knit community. This community named
after the road it is located on, which is also it\'s patron saint. The
feast of St. Leo is on the 10th of November and is usually celebrated
enthusiastically by everyone. This Community is the \"J\" Community.
There are regular meetings on the second Friday of each month at 7:30
p.m. at Silver Isle, a building at the end of the road. There is usually
a good turnout for these meetings. Several important civic, health
issues have been addressed due to the cooperation of the members. For
example, during the dengue epidemic, the authorities were notified and
appropriate action was taken to fumigate the area. Paper drives are
occasionally undertaken and the money donated to a good cause like St.
Catherine\'s Home. On the entertainment front, the Road feast is
generally celebrated on the Sunday closest to the actual day. Members of
the community generally undertake to do the readings etc. at mass on
that Sunday. This time, Mass was held at the college Chapel at 8:15 a.m.
Refreshments were served to all present after Mass. In the afternoon
there was a get together with games and lunch for the residents of the
community. 86 people attded. There are also similar get togethers for
Christmas and sometimes, just to have fun. A few other activities took
place, notably a street cleaning conducted jointly with the B.M.C. staff
on the 18th of December. At Christmas, the community participated in
Carol Singing and the Star & Crib Contest. The New Year Celebration was
attended by 93 residents. Our \"Crib In The Star\" won 2nd place in the
Bandra Metro Competition. Among the more active members, Valerian
Fernandes, Dallas Gonsalves and Ruby Heredia and many others . Ruby
Heredia was voted \"Most Active Resident\" at the last feast day lunch.
