![](ZonalNewLogoRW175CDR.jpg){border="0" width="175" height="113"}\
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Click for Andrean Notes Reports of \
[The First Zonals 1953](#The%20Andrean%20Notes%20of%20September%201953)\
[The Second Zonals
1954](#The%20Andrean%20Notes%20of%20September%201954)\
**[Zonal Results August 22nd. Classical](Classical_Scores_.htm)\
**[Zonal Results August 29nd.
Non-classical](Nonclassical_Scores_.htm)****

**[Zonal Results Sept 5th
Dramatics](ZONALS-_FINALS_ANNOUNCEMENT_SHEET.htm)**

[Zonal Winners](winners.htm)

 **Looking Forward \....   Zonals 2004 Details .**   \...\... Scroll
below for reports of the First (1953) and Second (1954) Zonal
Competition

The Cultural calendar of Bandra is incomplete without The **ZONALS**. We
invite you to this years event ZONALS 2004 which is the 49^th^
Presentation of St. Andrews Parish Annual Zonal Talent
Contest.               

The last fortyeight performances, the first being in 1953, have helped
members of St. Andrews discover their capabilities in Classical and Non
Classical, Vocal and Instrumental Music and in Dramatics. For the large
number of young people involved with the actual organization, the ZONALS
has served as a training ground for skill in motivating teams of people
to achieve challenging goals. Many a giant in the music, theatre
entertainment and event management industry of our city owes the initial
discovery of his talent to this platform. 

The events for this year are as follows

      **CLASSICAL**                                    22^ND^ AUG, 2004

Entry forms to be submitted by 15^TH^ AUG 2004 at the Bosco Hall after
the 6pm mass. Entry forms are available with the respective Zone
captains

      **NON CLASSICAL**                        29^TH^ AUG, 2004\
\
**Entry forms to be submitted by** **22^ND^ AUG 2004 at  the Bosco Hall
after the 6pm mass.** **Entry forms are available with the respective
Zone captains**

      **DRAMATICS      **             4^TH^ & 5^TH^ SEPTEMBER, 2004

Date of Sale of tickets for the dramatics will be announce shortly 

**ZONE**

**CAPTAINS**

**TELEPHONE  NO**

Nandita Gomes

26407749

 

Leandro Dsylva

9821337484

 

 

 

Justin DeNies

9819340387

 

Samantha Dsouza

26431824

 

 

 

Blossom Furtado

9892863448

 

Ivonne Reis

26427837

 

 

 

Karan Misquitta

26431413

 

Janice Vaz

26423952

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**

We have reproduced  reports  first published in the **Andrean Notes of
September 1953 and September 1954** \
on the **First** and **Second** Zonal Contests and more !

 Click Below for the first archived article \...

(A **special prize** will be presented to the most original and
entertaining explanation \
for the enigmatic comment made in the Indian Express report \
of the **Second Zonal** report, see \* below. Mark your mail, Subject:
2nd Zonal Report Indian Express \
Send comments through \'Talk to Us\' on the Home page)

\
[The First Zonals 1953](#The%20Andrean%20Notes%20of%20September%201953)\
[The Second Zonals 1954](#The%20Andrean%20Notes%20of%20September%201954)

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ **

**[Reproduced from The Andrean Notes of September
1953]{#The Andrean Notes of September 1953}**

(We need to thank Mr Carlisle Curry whenever we reproduce material from
past Andrean Notes\... on two counts. Mr Curry was the editor of the
Andrean Notes for countless years and almost single handedly carried out
the publication of this newsletter. A mammoth task of a devoted
professional. As if that were not enough, Mr Curry also took the trouble
to preserve copies of the Notes over the years and after neatly binding
them in volumes, he presented them to the Parish. AWT:HJR)

-  August 1953 (First Zonal Competition)

The Bosco Club have done it again -- thanks to their splendid idea,
their very good effort and their hard work, the Parish Zonal Dramatic
Competition was an outstanding success; thanks also to the Zonal
Captains and the Competitors who participated.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}There are many who can severely criticize
and point out the many defects of the competition, but they could not
have done so before the 'grand show'.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The
organizing committee under the direction of Rev. Fr. Nereus Rodrigues
have done the pioneering of the brand new idea and they have also had to
bear the brunt of the critics.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Nevertheless, they have won their laurels
and they have gained a rich experience. 

The competition was an achievement for all the Captains.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}They mustered out their artistes for the
individual items, young and old pianists, violinists, mouth organists,
singers, elocutionists -- an array of 123 contestants from all four
zones was a combined demonstration of the talent among the Parishioners
of St. Andrew's -- "of a very high standard" as declared by the judges
and as evidenced before a record audience who witnessed individual and
group performances of histrionic skill and technique and aesthetic
appeal beyond their expectations. 

The Scheme Zone carried away the laurel wreath for their excellent
operatic burlesque 'ANTONIO'.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Headed by
two notable stage personalities of repute (and that was the secret of
their success), Mr. Eddie Fonseca and Mrs. Dorothy Roach, and with a
cast of young handsomes and beauties, success was just around the
corner.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Nevertheless, they had to put in a
lot of effort and hard work to win top-place by attaining a high score
of 47 points out of 50 'with a bang' of a performance.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Then of course their individual artistes
were top-performers.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Miss Fay Sequeira was
superb in her singing and with her nightingale voice she was
unbeatable.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Miss Antonette Selkirk with
her grand piano recital and Master Douglas Rowe with his fine Violin
solo added a lot more points to give the Scheme Zone a grand total of 64
to win the Zonal Championship without argument.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The Scheme also won the prize cake for the
best sale of tickets. 

Ranwar was judged fourth -- best as a group item, but they gathered
enough points to give them second place in the aggregate.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The two outstanding character actors as
anybody in the audience could see, were Mr. Vernon Pereira and Miss
Muriel Pereira.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}They had to run the race,
however, with the handicap of the other actors failing to come up to
their mark, but above all with the sad choice of the play.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Mr. Dick Pereira as the Doctor's Compounder
had so little to do otherwise the chances of Ranwar would have been
better if, for instance Dick and Melville had changed parts.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun:    
yes"}Ossie Fonseca and his stage -- sweetheart Miss Lourdes Pereira were
lovers true to type, shall we say?[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Ranwar
was able to take second place with the points won by 1) Ossie Fonseca
who played the mouth-organ wonderfully well, 2) Mrs. Mona Aranha who
sang so divinely and 3) Master Roger Pereira who was a miniature
Napoleon with his elocution. 

St. Paul's Zone went down fighting to the last ditch, and while
everybody was sure that they would win through, their struggle ended
abruptly.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The Bishop's Candlesticks'
afforded the best scope for Dramatics and both Ferdinand Miranda and
Reggie Coelho soared high in the histrionic atmosphere -- the contrast
of the two characters the Bishop and the convict was accentuated by each
other's character portrayal.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Miss Rene
Ferreira was the typical woman found in clergy homes-grumbling against
charity, solicitous about the things of this world, the prototype of
Martha in the Bible story.[   ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}St.Paul's were
also at a disadvantage in that they had only one individual contestant,
Mr. Ferdinand Miranda, who with his splendid baritone voice sang with
Paul Robeson style to bring St. Paul's total a little higher. 

Hill Road and Chimbai Zone deserved unstinted praise and they got it
from the Panel of Judges who declared that their item 'Mama's Delight'
was singled out for Originality, Stage-setting and Juvenile
performance-a thing of beauty.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The Doll's
shop was pretty beyond compare and the Dolls were perfectly costumed and
each one performed excellently well.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun:    
yes"}This was the only group item that was an original creation written
by the Zonal Captain Mr. C. Curry who also assisted Miss Betty Vincent
in training the little children to perform with such grace and
perfection.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The play captured everyone,
but the Mama Doll stole the hearts of everyone.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Nevertheless, this beautiful play earned
only 35 points.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}To add to this score there
was only one individual item performer Mr. Anthony Pinto who played the
violin in a masterly manner, to win 7 points the highest secured by any
individual. 

We have heard so much said in praise of the Judges and the difficult
task they had in judging the winners in a competition so closely
contested and so varied in its items.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}We
need say no more, but we must now give unstinted praise to those judges
who were faced with a far more difficult job in selecting only eight out
of 123 performers for the finals, during a six hour period for two days
at the elimination contest -- and what a fine job they did make of it. 

It would be most fair to make special mention of three Committee members
who virtually slaved for the success of the competition.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Mr. Alfred Netto, Mr. Leslie Britto and Mr.
Melville Mendes -[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}We take our hat off to
them and to the organizing Committee for doing such a magnificient job
of the 1953 Zonal Dramatic Competition of St. Andrew's Parish held on
23^rd^ August 1953.

[The President of the evening was the Rt. Rev. Mgr. V. Dyer, Vicar
General.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}In
his speech he expressed his admiration and appreciation of the function
in which the Parishioners of St. Andrew's had shown such rich talent in
music and drama.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}He
personally congratulated the Zonal Captains and announced that he had
decided to give a prize for each zone.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}Our
Vicar, Rev. Fr. Henry Remedios then raised a vote of thanks to the
President and the Judges, and to every single one who shared in the work
of making the function a splendid success.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}The
audience was large and most responsive and appreciative, and they
enjoyed every single moment of the entertainment.[  
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}Thank
you to one and all who sponsored the show.
]{style="mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"}

[ 
]{style="font-size:12.0pt;font-family:\"Times New Roman\";mso-fareast-font-family:
\"Times New Roman\";mso-ansi-language:EN-US;mso-fareast-language:EN-US;
mso-bidi-language:AR-SA"}[(Input:YvDm)]{style="font-family: Times New Roman; mso-fareast-font-family: Times New Roman; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA"} 

 

** [Reproduced from The Andrean Notes of September
1954]{#The Andrean Notes of September 1954}**

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**

**The Parish Zonal Competition  -   August 1954 (Second Zonal
Competition)**

**Scheme Wins Wilfred Pereira Challenge Trophy** 

The Second Parish Zonal Dramatic Competition was held at St. Andrews
High School Hall, on Sunday, August 22^nd^ "The Scheme" zone (last
year's winners) again proved that they had the cream of the talent in
their zone.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Besides winning the main
dramatic event with their presentation of "FERDINAND THE BULL" a
burlesque with picturesque Spanish setting, they secured first place in
five of the eight individual items. 

All four zones were truly enthusiastic about the success of the
competition.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun:    
yes"}They vied with each other in bringing out the talented young and
old artistes to sing and play and dance and dramatise.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}No pains were spared in getting appropriate
stage settings and gorgeous costumes; much time was sacrificed for
practices which were sometimes carried on till the early hours of the
morning.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}'Team-work' was the motto of
every zone. 

There was variety in the plays presented; a welcome contrast balanced
gay burlesque with pure drama.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Five judges
were at their wits end in declaring the order of merit which proved
quite a task for them.[   ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}This year a
magnificient trophy was presented by Mr. Wilfred Pereira -- a trophy
that stirred the competitors on to better efforts. 

A responsive audience packed the hall to capacity to witness the
entertainment.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The judges called it a
colossal success.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun:    
yes"}The President, Mr. Wilfred Pereira was impressed by the enthusiasm
of the competing zones; Rev. Fr. Henry Remedios our Vicar was
overwhelmed and overjoyed at the grand success of the competition. 

The Bosco Club was given due praise for the able and efficient manner in
which they conducted the competition under the direction of the Hon.
Secretary Mr. Melville Mendes.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Everybody
was being congratulated by everybody.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}What
a Show \![  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}What a success !. 

It was apparent after the eliminations that there was no scope for real
competition -[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The Scheme Zone had seven
contestants for the individual events.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Ranwar had four, St. Paul had three and Hill
Road had two -- it was a foregone conclusion that only the Scheme would
win the trophy.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}If the talented are
greater in number in one particular zone it goes without saying that the
scope of competition does not exist. 

The Organizing Committee must bear this in mind at next year's
competition, and the competing zones must be prepared to accept whatever
arrangement will be arrived at for real healthy competition next year. 

The Scheme lost marks on account of the chatting and whisperings that
went on by the Spanish Belles clustered around the fruit stalls, and for
not synchronizing their singing with the music accompaniment. 

Ranwar was severely penalized for the manner in which the Ladies of the
Welfare Committee gossiped away as each one finished her stage part, and
for the exeunt of performers after performance.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}St. Paul suffered loss of marks heavily
because of the very glaring defect of Scenery and because players were
hidden by players during performance. 

Marks were slashed from Hill Road because of the use of the mike in the
wrong place and for some defects in direction. 

We reproduce here Mr. Cecil Mendoza's comment which appeared in The
Indian Express. 

"The finals of the Second parish zonal dramatic competition under the
auspices of the Bosco Club of Bandra held at the St. Andrew's High
School Hall, Bandra, on Sunday turned out to be a colossal success. 

"Rev. Father Henry Remedios the Vicar of St. Andrew's Church divided his
parish into four zones known as the Scheme.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}St. Paul Road, Ranwar and Hill Road. 

"Each zone contributed a play.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}'Ferdinand
the Bull,' more like a skit on the famous Spanish sport, produced and
enacted by 'The Scheme' was colourful and tuneful containing a very
appropriate gypsy dance. 

The other musical play 'And So It Goes On' by the Ranwar group finished
with an American ministrel show which was the most jovial item of the
programme.

 'Kismet' staged by the St. Paul's group centralized too much on Hajj,
the Beggar played by Mr. Reggie Coelho that the play seemed to lack
interest towards the final stages. 

But Miss Waters as Yasmin the daughter of Hajj was very spectacular in
her oriental dance. 

There were 12 final contestants in the vocal or instrumental section and
the general standard was quite good, especially of the young violinists
who showed that their training is on the right lines. 

There were five judges and Mr. Sam Berkley-Hill gave an interesting
critical resume of the dramatic section. 

The Wilfred Pereira Trophy was awarded to 'The Scheme'.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Some of the audience felt that the 'Hill
Road' zone could have tied with the winners. 

\* The use of the microphone adjusted in an uncouth position was the
undoing of Hill Road. 

For originality of conception Mr. Carlisle Curry who wrote 'The Secret'
must be congratulated. 

Mrs. W. Pereira gave away the Trophy and the prizes.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The proceeds of the performance were in aid
of the St. Andrew's Educational Charities. 

 
