 ![](../images/ranwar5.gif){border="0" width="200" height="160"}

[   \...  the villages gradually became congested because when there was
a need for additional accommodation new houses were built on any open
space in the village in a haphazard
manner.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\...  ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}Gradually tall buildings
and *chawls* sprung up on the outskirts of a village.

 

(A rooftop view of a section of Ranwar Village)

**Ware *!***

Click on the thumbnail below for a high rise view of Ranwar Village, one
of the last few \'heritage\' locations, being inexorably engulfed by
multistoreyed buildings.

[![](RanwarVillageAerial_small.jpg){border="2"
xthumbnail-orig-image="../images/RanwarVillageAerial.jpg" width="100"
height="80"}](../images/RanwarVillageAerial.jpg)

**[Back To East Indians Home Page](indexEI.htm)**

[**The Bombay East
Indians: **]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: normal"}**[\
Rediscovering the
Roots]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; color: #993300; mso-bidi-font-weight: normal"}**

**By Fr Larry Pereira**

[ **[I[   ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}[ ]{style="mso-spacerun:
yes"}Introduction]{.smallcaps}**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[The 'Bombay East Indians' are the descendants of the thousands of
indigenous, Marathi-speaking people of Mumbai (Bombay) and its environs
who embraced the Catholic faith, mainly in the period 1547 to 1600.
Though drawn from diverse social groups, they developed a 'consciousness
of kind' over the centuries, chiefly due to the common religion that
they professed. While the masses remained rooted in the rural soil,
retaining their Maharashtrian characteristics, the lifestyle of the
urbanised sections of the community was gradually transformed due to
Portuguese and English influences.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
The designation 'Bombay East Indian' was adopted on the occasion of the
Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria (1887) by the leaders of the community
and the 'Bombay East Indian Association' was established on the 26th May
of the same year.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**[II [   ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}The Origin of the community
]{.smallcaps}**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**[]{.smallcaps}**

Maharashtra is one of the few states in India that has the distinction
of having the presence of Christian communities in the pre-colonial
period. These communities were based at Kalyan, Chaul (Revdanda), Sopara
(Vasai) and Thane and their presence was acknowledged by Pope John XXII
in 1329 when he addressed letters to the Christians of 'Konkan --
Thana', and sent them with Bishop Jordan Catalani of Quilon, who had
been a missionary at Thane, Sopara, etc. from 1321 onwards. Though Elsie
W. Baptista in her doctoral thesis *('The East Indians', 1957)* links
the East Indians with these early Christian communities, we do not have,
at present, any evidence of their survival.

[In fact, the foundation of the East Indian community was laid in the
period 1547 -- 1600, when thousands in this area (from Dahanu in the
north to Chaul in the south) embraced Christianity, chiefly due to the
missionary enterprise of the Franciscans and the
Jesuits.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

The two outstanding missionaries of the early period were Fr Antonio do
Porto O.F.M. and Bro. Manuel Gomes S.J. who was ordained a priest
subsequently. Due to the zeal of these two missionaries (and many more),
village after village received Christianity, and hundreds were baptised
at solemn ceremonies. The following are examples of four places (among
many others) at which the baptisms took place:

[  ]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

**[1) [   ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Mazagaon (Bombay
city)]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**[[\
]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}]{.underline}[T]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}[he
prolific Franciscan chronicler, Paulo da Trindade, says: "This village
of Mazagaon was entirely made up of Hindus, but through the preaching
and industry of our friars, they were all converted together and
baptised at a solemn baptism, more than three hundred souls, and the
fervour and enthusiasm with which they received the baptismal waters
(was so great) that each one tried to be the first to receive (baptism)
and all who were present were not a little astonished and filled with
admiration".\
*(Source: Ancient Franciscan Provinces in India, by A. Meersman OFM, pg.
200)*]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**2) Bandra (Bombay Suburban District)**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[A Jesuit wrote from Bandra on the 15th December 1575 : "There are now
three of us living in this place \... All work well for the conversion
of souls, so much so that this year two hundred have been baptised". In
1580 over two thousand were baptised at Bandra. This was followed by
many baptisms in the subsequent years. The annual letter of 1584 states
that practically all the people, except those of the Muslim localities,
were already Christians. And, we are informed that, in the year 1603,
"there are no Hindus anywhere in Bandra, all having been given the name
of Christ". In 1616 there were over six thousand Catholics in Bandra and
hence the parish was bifurcated. (Source: History of Christianity in
India, CHAI, Vol. II and the notes of Fr A. Conti
S.J.)]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**3) Marol (Bombay Suburban District)**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[In 1579, on the feast of St John the Baptist, when the church of the
same name was blessed at Condita (near Marol) 500 hundred adults were
baptised. "On the eve of the Assumption in 1588, the whole village of
Marol became Catholic. After a very short time thirteen other villages
under the jurisdiction of Marol followed her example". According to the
Jesuit report of 1669 the names of some of the other villages are
Chakala, Gundowli, Bamanwada, Condita, Saki, etc. From the same report
we know that there were\
3,027 (or 3,178 in another account) Catholics in these villages of which
1,380 were in Marol.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**4) Borivili or Mandapeshwar (Bombay Suburban
District)**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[Mandapeshwar (Mount Poinsur) and the village of Borivili were separate
entities in the past. Fr Gago S.J., writing in 1549 mentions that there
were four hundred Christians at Mandapeshwar. Other writers give us more
details. This is a very early reference about the presence of a
Christian community in this region (North Konkan) in the colonial
period.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
The above are just four examples that illustrate the fruit of the
Franciscan and Jesuit missionaries. Indeed their zeal, and that of
others, was so great that by the early decades of the 1600s there were
more than 74,000 Catholics in this region i.e. from Dahanu in the north
to Chaul in the south. In the following table the figures for Mumbai
Island are obtained from Paulo da Trindade (I, 36) and the figures for
the other places are obtained from the quinquennial report sent to Rome
on the 10th May 1621.

\
These new Christians were drawn from the following social groups:
Samvedi Brahmins\
in North Vasai, Vadvals in South Vasai, Kunbis in Salsette and Mumbai,
Kolis in Vasai, Salsette and Mumbai, Bhandaris in Salsette and Mumbai,
Prabhus in Mumbai, Khatris, in Thane. In addition, they were also drawn
from the following groups in different places: Brahmins, Kumbhars,
Pachkalshis, Charkalshis, Sonars, Nhavis, Dhobis, Kharpatils, Bhois,
Mahars and Chambars.

[ ]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[\
**[III [            ]{style="mso-tab-count:1"}Conversion, Change and
Continuity]{.smallcaps}**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[Some naively assume that conversion to Christianity brings in its wake,
changes in one\'s lifestyle. They erroneously think that a Christian
should be suited or skirted, use a fork and a spoon, speak English and
necessarily wear a white wedding gown!
]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**1. Names**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[Most of the converts assumed the surname of the priest who baptised
them or of the sponsor. For example, the Jesuit report of 1669 mentions
that many converts assumed the name 'Gomes' in honour of Bro. Manuel
Gomes S.J. who evangelised in what is now the Bombay Suburban District.
Usually all the converts of a particular pakhadi (hamlet) assumed the
same name, as can be seen from the gravestones and the registers of
baptisms, marriages and burials in the old churches. It must be
emphasised that they assumed Portuguese surnames and not 'Christian'
ones as is often understood. (Christians all over the world usually have
local surnames).]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
In fact many families of the Koli and Bhandari community did not change
their surname at conversion. This is consistent with their lifestyle
that has been hardly affected by anything Portuguese or English -- be it
food, fashion, or furniture.

[\
**2. Cultural Groups**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[As mentioned earlier, the converts were drawn from various social
groups. After conversion they could be classified into the following
groups:]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
*a) Samvedi Christians\
*The Samvedi Christians lived with their Hindu counterparts in the
Northern half of Vasai (Bassein) near the Vaitarna river in villages
like Agashi, Nandahakal, Nirmal etc.. Their ancestors were brahmins who
took to agriculture very much before they accepted Christianity. This
group has retained much of its pre-Christian culture and traditions. For
example they do eat beef.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
*b) Vadvals*]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[The Christian Vadvals live with their Hindu counterparts in the
Southern half of Vasai in villages like Remedy, Giriz, Sandor, Merces
etc. They are descended from the Pachkalshis and Somavanshi Kshatriyas.
They are a warrior class that has taken to agriculture. Like the Samvedi
Christians they too do not eat
beef.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
*c) Koli Christians\
*The Kolis are not essentially a fishing caste. However, some of them,
who migrated to the coastal areas, took to fishing as an occupation.
There are indications that their conversion to Christianity took place a
little later than that of the other groups.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Though the Kolis are included under the East
Indian \'umbrella\', ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[i)[                    ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}they
rarely refer to themselves as \'East
Indians\']{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[ii)[                   ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}the
women do not wear the traditional East Indian
sari]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[iii)[                 ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}they
usually have different surnames from the other East Indians as most of
them have retained their pre-conversion surnames. In spite of the above,
some writers mistakenly use the words \'koli\' and \'East Indian\'
interchangeably !]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
*d) Salsette Christians*]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[The Salsette Christians are often regarded as typical \'East Indians\',
only because of their numbers and the media exposure that they have
received. Besides they are the ones who constantly and consistently
refer to themselves as 'East Indians'. They inhabit the large Salsette
Island, which is considered to be the heartland of the East Indians.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}In the past, Salsette was often referred to
as a 'granary' by many writers. ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
*e) The urbanised group*]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[This section is in many respects similar to the Salsette Christians.
The difference lies in the fact that they received education in English
from the Jesuits, the Religious of Jesus and Mary and the Daughters of
the Cross. In general they were influenced by the English rather than
the Portuguese. In religious matters they usually belonged to the
*Propaganda jurisdiction*, while their counterparts in Salsette belonged
to the *Padrado jurisdiction*.\
They inhabit areas like Khotachiwadi, Matherpakhadi, Dadar, Mahim, etc..
Though Bandra was part of[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}the Salsette
Island, yet its inhabitants were considered to be a part of the
urbanised group, because of the excellent educational and other
facilities available.[ ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}\
\
]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

*[f) Miscellaneous groups]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}*

[Besides the above*,* there are East Indians who belong to social
groups, like the Bhandaris, Khumbars etc, some of whom have retained
their traditional lifestyle and occupation. (Classification based on
Chapter II of \'The East Indians\' by Elsie W.
Baptista).]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[ ]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}\
**[3. Dress]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

[Among the men there was no change in dress at the time of baptism, for
their traditional dress was suited to their occupation. Besides there is
no such thing as 'Christian' clothing.
]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[The women continued to wear the traditional sari and choli but at some
time, we do not know when, modifications and additions were introduced
as follows: The Christian women of all the social groups, with the
exception of the *Kolis*, wear a sari with small checks and two borders;
only checks -- no flowers or other designs. The colour varies from group
to group - usually red or orange. The *Samvedis* wear a deep red while
the *Bhandaris* wear green. Among the *Kunbis*, the widows wear dark
blue instead of red. The\
manner of draping the sari and the length to which it is allowed to
fall, depends on the occupational group to which one
belongs.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}[ Strangely, the end of the sari is not used
to cover the head as is customary among other[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Indians. Instead, the head and the entire
body is covered by the \'*vol*\' which is a large white sheet that
reaches the ankles and has a puffed effect behind. A traditional woman
would wear the 'vol' to church, while for shopping, visiting etc, she
would wear a shorter, semi-transparent veil called the \'*chundhri*\'.
It is interesting to note that though the women of this community were
drawn from diverse social and cultural groups, yet they adopted a common
dress -- almost a uniform\![ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**4. Diet**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[Conversion to Christianity did not necessarily imply a change of diet.
Even today there are tens of thousands of indigenous Christians in Vasai
Taluka who do not eat beef. However some sections of the community
gradually introduced changes in their diet due to western influences and
urbanisation. ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[ ]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

**[5. Language]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

[East Indians Marathi is a dialect that is comprised of many variants,
depending on the area in which it is spoken. Today this dialect is
largely being replaced by standard ('shuddh') Marathi due to education
and the media.[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Of course, in most areas,
English has replaced it. ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[ ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

Interestingly, those who spoke the literary or standard Marathi often
despised those who spoke colloquial Marathi. They did not realise that
all over Maharashtra people spoke different dialects and that the
knowledge of a dialect was an indication that one was a \'son of the
soil\'.

[\
**6. Villages and houses**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[There are areas in Mumbai city and its suburbs that are dominated by
high rise buildings. But behind these stereo-typed structures one
suddenly comes across an \'East Indian Village\' which is characterised
by its narrow winding lanes, quaint houses with out-door wooden
staircases and wayside crosses.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

 

[ ![](../images/ranwarsquare.gif){border="0" width="200"
height="160"}]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
Kotachiwadi and Matharpacadi; Pali, Rajan and Ranwar in Bandra; Amboli,
Gundawali and Marol in Andheri; are examples of these hamlets. In fact
our international and domestic airport is built on the rice-fields of
the agriculturists of some of the surrounding East Indian villages.
(Clockwise): Kalina, Vakola, Vile Parle, Sahar, Marol and Kurla.\

[The layout and houses in an East Indian Village depends on the
occupational group that lives in it. Accordingly there is a difference
between the villages of the farmers and the fisherfolk, between those of
the growers of rice and the growers of vegetables. As elsewhere in this
study the focus in this section will be on the villages/hamlets of the
\'Salsette Christians\' whose ancestors were the owners of fields, which
they cultivated. The villages of the Salsette Christians are comprised
of houses that are built in very close proximity to one another with
narrow alleys in between. It is interesting to note that the villages of
the Hindu cultivators in the neighbouring districts also have the same
pattern -- without the wayside
crosses.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
Why are these houses huddled together when there is so much open land
around the village? Well, the houses are usually built close to one
another, often on a rocky or less fertile spot, so as to leave the
surrounding land free for the cultivation of rice. In contrast those who
grow vegetables have their individual houses surrounded by \'wadis\' or
gardens. It is precisely on the former rice fields surrounding a village
that town planning schemes and housing societies have sprung up. Bandra
is a typical example of this.  ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[Today many architects study these ancient villages and tourists are
fascinated by them. Some of them have been declared as \'heritage
areas\'. However these villages are rapidly losing their character due
to the following reasons:]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[a.[       ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}While there were a
few houses in the past, the villages gradually became congested because
when there was a need for additional accommodation new houses were built
on any open space in the village in a haphazard
manner.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[b.[      ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}Gradually tall
buildings and *chawls* sprung up on the outskirts of a
village.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[c.[       ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}Sometimes the quaint
cottages or one storeyed houses were demolished to make room for tall
buildings.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

 

![](../images/EIRanwarSkyline1.gif){border="0" width="480" height="150"}

[d.[      ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}A typical village
house comprised of a verandah, drawing room, hall, dining room,
bedrooms, kitchen etc. The houses were so planned that there was a lot
of space for social gatherings like christenings, marriages etc. Today
these houses have been divided and sub-divided so as to accommodate the
family members or tenants. Sometimes the front of a house is used as a
shop -- a feature that is very common in the Bandra
bazaar.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[e.[       ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}Originally
pedestrians frequented the winding lanes and alleys. Today they are used
by two-wheelers and other vehicles.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[f.[        ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}While the number of
residents of a village has increased, the water supply, sanitation and
other facilities have remained the same. Today the words village or
hamlet are used interchangeably. However strictly speaking a village is
comprised of many hamlets or \'pakhadis\'. From the church registers,
other records and gravestones we know the names of the extant and
extinct hamlets.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
Given below are the names of some of the East Indian villages and
hamlets.\
]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[The first section covers Bandra while the second section covers the
rest of\
the Salsette Island. ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}[\
\
]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[·[       
]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}]{style="font-family:Symbol"}The
following hamlets (villages) have retained their identity:

Chuim, Khar (Salgado and Khumbarwada), Pali, Malla, Sherly, Rajan,
Chimbai\
(Colaria de Igreja) and Ranwar.

[·[       
]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Symbol"}[Some
houses of the following hamlets (villages) exist; sometimes the\
village has a new name: Povoacao (between S.V. Rd and D\'Monte St.),\
Dandacarvar (Boran), Rauna (near Mun Mkt), Bandrastal (near St
Joseph\'s\
Chapel, Bazaar), Colaria de Meio (Bazaar area), Colaria Grande (Chapel\
Road), Zaitukali (n. of Mt Carmel), Waroda, and Old Kantwadi (Horta de
Santo\
Andre).]{style="mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[The following hamlets (villages) have disappeared but their sites are
known: Parwar (between Ambedkar Rd and Khar Gym), Tanque (near the
Lotus\
Tank), Patharwar (N. of St Joseph\'s Convent, including Prof. Almeida
Park), Supali near the \'Supali Talao\' (today called \'Supari Talao\')
and Colai (near St F. Assissi Church) which is indicated on Fryer\'s map
of 1672. More than fifteen hamlets were inhabited by agriculturists or
farmers. A few were inhabited by fishermen, toddy-tappers and
potters]{style="font-weight:normal"}*.*

[ 
]{style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman"}Aarey\
Aldeamar (Madh)\
Amboli\
Andheri\
Aniqua\
Bamandwada\
Bhyander\
Borivli\
Borla\
Chakala

Charkop\
Chembur\
Cherai\
Chincholi\
Culvem

Dahisar[]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

  Deonar\
Dongri\
Gorai\
Goregaon

Gundavli\
Irla\
Juhu\
K'villa\
Kalina\
Kanjur\
Kashi\
Kaevni\
Kandivli\
Kanheri\
Kharodi\
Kirol[]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

 [       
]{style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-size: 7.0pt; font-family: Times New Roman"}Kurla\
Magatana\
Majiwada\
Malwani\
Mani\
Manori

Marol\
Marouli

Marve\
Mira\
Mulgaon (Andheri)\
Orlem\
Oshiwara\
Pahadi\
Pali (Uttan)\
Parla[]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[       
]{style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}Poinsur\
Pond\
Rathodi\
Sahar\
Simpor\
Sion\
Taroti\
Trombay\
Uttan\
Vakola\
Varoli\
Versova\
Vikhroli\
Erangal\
\
\
[]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[[ ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}\
**7. Customs**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[The East Indians retained much of their pre-Christian culture; this is
especially true of the *Samvedis*, *Vadvals* and *Kolis*. However even
the Salsette Christians and the urbanised sections retained marriage and
other customs that are similar to those of the other Maharashtrian
groups in the area. For example, *sakarpuda*, anointing with turmeric or
saffron, *umbracha pani* i.e. procession to a well, nuptial bath on a
stool, mangal sutra, inspection and criticism of gifts
etc.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**[III. Homeland and Heritage]{.smallcaps}**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[The homeland of the East Indians is in North Konkan, West Maharashtra.
Specifically, they are the indigenous people of the Mumbai Islands,
Salsette Island, Vasai and a few other places. This habitat, which is
characterised by bounty and diversity, has had an influence on the
economic life, culture and outlook of the community. In order to
understand and appreciate this, one has to roll back the urban sprawl to
reveal the rice fields and forests beneath. It is difficult to imagine
that the slums of Saki Naka cover former farmland, the produce of which
sustained the Jesuit Mission in East Asia and that the Salsette Island
was frequently called a
\'granary\'. ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

**[2.[ 
]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}Water]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

Water always adds a refreshing touch to a landscape besides satisfying
personal, agricultural and other needs. The East Indian homeland has a
great deal of water because of its proximity to the sea and the abundant
rainfall\
that it receives. In addition to the Vaitarna and Ulhas rivers, there
are\
many monsoon streams. Another source of water supply was the numerous
tanks,\
ponds and wells. Besides, bays, creeks, and inlets are useful for
transport,\
fishing and the manufacture of salt. The creeks in particular are the
source\
of the \'black sand\' which is used for construction and which comes
down all\
the way from the ghats. Indeed we take this salt and sand for granted\
without realising that they are peculiar to this region. For example,
though\
Kerala has a long coastline, the conditions there are not favourable for
the\
manufacture of salt.

**[3. Islands]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

[I]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}[slands have a charm of their own, specially
tropical ones. In this region there were first of all the seven islands
of Mumbai: Colaba, Al-Omanis, Mumbai, Mazagaon, Worli, Parel and Mahim.
Journalists and others usually refer to these as swampy islands. However
records indicate that they were just as good as any other tropical
islands, like the neighbouring Elephanta or Salsette for example. The
large Salsette island had satellite islands like Trombay, Juhu, Dharavi
and others. Vasai (Bassein) was described as an\
island a few centuries ago.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**4. Ports**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[In an age when the seas and waterways were the chief means of
communication, places on the coast and rivers usually grew in
importance. The North Konkan has been fortunate to have a number of
ports each supreme at different\
periods, which carried on trade with places as far off as Rome. These
ports\
were Chaul (Revdanda), Sopara (Vasai), Kalyan, Thane and Mumbai.
Besides\
there were smaller ports or \'*bhandars*\'. It was through these ports
that the\
colonists, traders and missionaries reached these regions earlier than\
places inland.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
**[5. Hills and Forests, Churches and Caves]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

[Another feature that enhances the landscape is the range of hills,
lying on the North-South axis, the most outstanding ones being the
Salsette hills, the Dharavi hills, Tungar (2300 ft) and Kamandurg (2160
ft).]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
[These basaltic ridges, especially the ones at Dharavi, provided the
Portuguese with stone for their churches and forts at Vasai, Goa and
other places. Basalt is one of nature\'s many gifts to our great state
of Maharashtra. Due to this basalt and the diligence and skill of our
people, among all the states, Maharashtra leads in the number of forts
and cave temples. In Salsette itself we have caves of great religious
significance: Kanheri, Mandapeshwar, Mahakali (Kondivita), and a few
others. On another island are the renowned Elephanta caves. Besides,
these ranges were covered with dense forests, which were a rich source
of timber for the building of the churches, forts and other buildings.
Boats fashioned from this timber sailed for distant shores, and ornate
altars and pulpits adorned numerous churches.
]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"} [\
]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

**[6. Climate]{style="font-size:12.0pt;mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}**

[The climate is temperate as the massive Sahayadris shield the coastal
plain from the hot and cold winds during the day and night respectively.
And as the region is at sea level it receives refreshing sea breezes
especially in summer.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

[\
**7. Soil**]{style="font-size:12.0pt;
mso-bidi-font-size:10.0pt"}

[As the East Indians are called the \'sons of the soil\' it would be
appropriate to conclude this section with a reference to the soil of
their homeland. The various types of soil have been intelligently used
for different purposes: sandy soil for the coconut palms, laterite soil
for the rice fields, the \'powdery\' soil for growing bananas, vegetable
and flowers,\
the hill sides for mango groves, banks of the creeks for the manufacture
of salt and the clayey soil for
pottery.]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

\
Not only were the East Indians the \'sons of the soil\' but they
possessed a great deal of it, as about 90% of them were engaged in
agriculture e.g. the *Kunbis*, *Vadvals* and the *Samvedis*. *Agera* was
their harvest festival. While some land is yet in possession of the
community, especially in the rural areas, most of the land has been sold
or acquired by the Government.

[ ]{style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt"}

It is interesting to note that what is Shivaji Park once belonged to
some East Indian families of Dadar. Similarly housing colonies in Dadar
were the rice field of the villagers of Wadala, Gowari etc. Mumbai\'s
international airport stands on the rice fields of the original
villagers of Kalina, Vakola, Sahar etc. In Bandra, housing colonies,
Town\
Planning schemes etc, have come up on the rice fields of the villagers
of\
Pali, Malla, Kantwadi, Ranwar, etc.

**[V[  ]{style="mso-spacerun: yes"}[       ]{style="mso-tab-count:1"}A
discussion on the designation \'East Indian\' ]{.smallcaps}**

 **1.[      ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}Former
designation**

Before 1887 the local Catholics did not have a fixed or all-embracing
designation. Obviously they referred to themselves as Catholics and
Christians. But they also called themselves '*Kunbis*' (farmers),
'*Bhandaris*' (toddy - tappers), '*Kolis*' (fishermen) etc.\
The Gazetteer of the Bombay Presidency, Vol. XIII, Pt I, published in
1882, has about 19 pages on the native Christians in which it
consistently calls them '*Thana Christians'* as Bandra and the rest of
Salsette Island was included in Thane District till a few decades ago.
This gazetteer was published just five years before the designation
'East Indian' was adopted.

\
A large and high-profile section of the community was referred to as the
'Salsette Christians'. Some writers called the community 'Native Bombay
Portuguese Christians' as the elite were educated in Portuguese and aped
Portuguese ways. Some sections of the community were previously referred
to as '*Norteiros*' as they belonged to the Portuguese 'North Province'
in India.

 \
**2. The adoption and significance of the designation \'East Indian\'**

As mentioned earlier, the designation 'East Indian' was formally adopted
by the indigenous Christians of the North Konkan, on the occasion of the
Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria i.e. in 1887, by the leaders of the
Community and the 'Bombay East Indian Association' was launched on the
26th May of the same year Incidentally, it was in the same year, 1887,
that the Bori Bunder Station was given a new name: Victoria Terminus,
which in turn has been re-named Chattrapatti Shivaji Terminus.

\
It must be emphasised that the leaders of the community consciously and
deliberately chose the name 'East Indian'. This is a fact that needs to
be highlighted and publicised if we are to dispell the mists of
vagueness, confusion and ignorance that persist about the origin of the
name. If this fact is not known then the door is left open for
simplistic and far-fetched theories to enter. A writer has said that the
Europeans mistook the west coast of India for the east coast. Another
has erroneously said that the East India Company converted the ancestors
of the present day East Indians!!

\
But why did they adopt this name? Bombay was the first foot-hold that
the English acquired in India and the King Charles II handed Bombay over
to the East India Company to be "the true and absolute Lords and
Proprietors of the Fort and the Island". By choosing the designation
'East Indian', the local Catholic community of Bombay wished to assert
their rights and privileges as original citizens of Bombay Island and
its environs in view of the fact that Catholics from Goa and Mangalore
who had similar surnames were migrating to Bombay, after the
introduction of the steamships and railways.

\
The choice of the name also indicated that the leaders of the community
wished to express their gratitude and allegiance to the English in
contrast to some Catholics, indigenous and migrant, who were
pro-Portuguese. Bombay island was reluctantly surrendered to the
Portuguese in the years 1661-65 and the Salsette island, Vasai etc. were
liberated from the Portuguese rule by the Marathas in 1739. However,
vestiges of the Portuguese presence lingered in Bombay and its environs
through the presence of the '*Padrado*' jurisdiction in church affairs.
One of the reasons for the anti-Portuguese\
sentiment was that the Portuguese crown and clergy did not give much
importance to education, commerce etc. in contrast to the English.

\
Those who chose the name 'East Indian' did not find it an incongruous
designation for an indigenous community of the west coast since,
technically speaking, any Indian could be called an 'East Indian' as the
world was divided into the 'West Indies' and 'East Indies', with Europe
as the point of reference. In fact the West Indian Cricket team once
referred to our Indian XI as the East Indian team! Did the 'East India
Company' restrict themselves to the east of India? Those who express
surprise that there 'East Indians' on the west coast of India indicate
that they know their geography but not their history! Besides, it would
be more confusing if the members of community were called 'West
Indians', as they would be mistaken for natives of the Bahamas or some
other West Indian Islands in the Atlantic ocean!

 

**3.[      ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}The designation:
dissatisfaction and disadvantages**

Not all the leaders were in favour of the designation 'East Indian'.
Notable among those who did not approve of it was Kaka Joseph Baptist,
the right-hand man of Lokamanya Tilak and the first President of the
Home Rule League.'East Indian' was a name that was more suitable to the
urbanised sections of the community rather than the Marathi-speaking
masses who in any case hardly used it or identified with it. Even after
a hundred years there are many who are not even aware of it. For example
in Vasai there are tens of thousands of native Catholics who are 'East
Indians' but they reserve this name for those who inhabit two or three
villages or hamlets! Even the Catholic *Kolis* hardly refer to
themselves as 'East Indians'. And strangely, some non-East Indians
identity the word \'East Indian\' with the Vasai Catholics and the Kolis
exclusively.

\
The name is not an exclusive one, for it is also used by some in West
Bengal who are in no way connected with those in and around Bombay
bearing the same name. Besides, the name was formerly used by those who
are called Eurasians today. The name is an inappropriate and misleading
one, for few would be expected to be aware that it has a historical and
not geographical connotation. Whereas the native Catholics of Kerala and
Goa are called Keralites (Malayalees) and Goans respectively, a large
section of the original Catholics of Maharashtra are not called
Maharashtrians but East Indians! It\
appears that the designation 'Maharashtrian' has been monopolised by the
Hindus! Ironically, some Hindu Maharashtrians who have recently migrated
to Mumbai from distant districts of the State imagine that the East
Indians are outsiders in 'amche Mumbai'.

\
However, there are some who are aware that the East Indians are truly
\'sons of the soil\'. One of these migrants to Mumbai, Bal Thackeray,
wrote as follows in 1968: \"The East Indians, who are essentially
Maharastrians, have also suffered. Being sons of the soil they find
themselves strangers in their own land. Their ancestral lands are
acquired, their houses have been demolished; for want of money their
children cannot get higher education, and for want of higher education,
they cannot get better jobs.\" (Page 5, \'The Bombay East Indian\', 15
January 1968). Because of this inappropriate name, some East Indians are
at a loss when people ask "What are you?" or "Where are you from?". For
the answer will elicit more questions than he or she would be able to
answer.

 

While Catholics from other states in India identity with their
respective States and even in Mumbai speak nostalgically of their
'native place'. East Indians, by and large, are not enthusiastic about
their state although it is a prosperous and progressive one. On the
other hand it must be admitted that the name 'East Indian' has given the
urbanised sections and some others a sense of identity and served as a
cohesive element.

 **4.[      ]{style="font:7.0pt \"Times New Roman\""}A change of
designation?**

Elsie W. Baptista, in her doctoral thesis on the community, states :
"The name 'East Indian' is a misnomer. In 1887 there were, no doubt,
certain circumstances that compelled the leading lights of the community
to adopt the name 'East Indian'. Those circumstances are now no more in
existence. The East India Company has gone forever. The British Raj has
pulled out of the Indian soil gracefully. India today is a sovereign
state. Among the diverse people of this land, 'East Indian' appears to
be an odd element with a foreign flavour. The homeland of the East
Indians is situated in Maharashtra. Their language is Marathi. A good
deal of their culture, especially of the ruralites, is Maharashtrian. Is
it not in the fitness of things and in accord with the community's
historical and cultural background for the East Indians to adopt the
designation Maharashtrian Christians?"

\
Elsie Baptista made this proposal before the State of Maharashtra was
formed. While the State was being formed this suggestion was revived by
many in the community. However it was not considered seriously. While
the designation Maharashtrian Christian, would not be an exclusive one,
as it would also include the indigenous Christians of Ahmednagar, Nagpur
etc, it would have many advantages. A suggestion has also been made that
the members of the community should be called Mumbaikars, as a
substantial percentage of them hail from Greater Mumbai. Even those who
are originally from adjacent areas could be called Mumbaikars, just as
those who are originally from places which are at a great distance from
Mangalore, are called Mangaloreans.

\

**[VII Conclusion]{.smallcaps}**

As this paper has been mainly concerned with the rediscovery of the
roots of the community, it has not focused many interesting topics, e.g.
community traditions, customs, cuisine, forklore, folk-songs, the
development of the community, urban occupations and professions, and
contemporary challenges, etc..\
However it is hoped that some of those participating in this seminar
will\
read about these aspects in order to understand and appreciate this\
community, which is unique, in as much as it owes its origin to a change
of\
religion. Besides, it is the only large Christian community in India
which is\
indigeneous to a metropolis.

\
\
**Bibliography\
**1 Baptista Elsie W., The East Indians\
2 Gazetteer of the Bombay Presidency, Vol XIII, Part I\
3 Godwin C.J., Change & Continuity\
4 Gracias Francis, Behold All Generations\
5 Meersman Achilles, The Ancient Franciscan Provinces in India\
6 Pera L.C., In the Mission Field\
7 The Bombay East Indian Association, Golden Jubilee Souvenir,
1887-1937\
8 The East Indian Journal (Monthly)\
9 Thekkedath Joseph, History of Christianity in India, Vol II (CHAI)

\
\
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
