[Back to Golden Bandra](index.htm)

Fairly Fantastic

By Del DeSouza            ![](mtmary192GB2.gif){border="0" width="280"
height="160"}

The season was announced by the arrival of the tiny white daisies with
the yellow centres, the heavy downpours interspersed with brilliant
shimmering sunlight, skies of a blue intensity never seen at other parts
of the year and, on a more earthy level, the shrieking of pigs whose
lives had been lived just for that very purpose -  to grace the tables
of Bandra during the Feast!

The time I'm talking about reaches way back to an age before designer
wear and prêt -- a porter. In those days, harried *darzis* and
seamstresses would have to gear up to the demands for \"Feast Dresses\"
as Bandra got all dressed up to visit the Church of Our Lady of the
Mount and to entertain visitors from other parts of the city and even
far-flung corners of the country\...

We were expecting a special guest that year. All the way from Canada,
Marion had timed her arrival so that at least this one time she'd be
part of the celebration that we claimed had called her into existence a
decade and a half ago.....

Marion, our cousin, was the one we had wished and prayed for and jogged
the Virgin's memory for with the offering of the little wax baby. People
were offering waxen limbs and candles of varying length matching the
height of the one for whom special blessings were sought. Not for us
were the shapes of houses or cars either  -   just this much --longed-
for baby. Gender did not matter, all we wanted for my mother's sister
and her husband was a happy healthy baby.

Fifteen years later, we were checking that there was an adequate supply
of boiled drinking water and that our \"Miracle Marion\" would be
comfortable and feel the warmth of our welcome.

At the airport, recognizing Marion among all the disembarking passengers
was a cinch. This was young Tess all over again and after all the
embraces and exclamations were over, we piled into Dad' battered old
two-door Morris and headed for home.

It was early in the morning, a light, brisk shower had left the road
glistening and traffic had not yet criss-crossed it with tyre tracks. \`

Over the Mahim Causeway, coming closer to Bandra, the twin spires of
Mount Mary's stood out on the tree-clad hill, like a book-mark,
indicating the special spot. By nightfall, the lights of the Giant Wheel
would be visible from this same spot with neither smog nor high-rise
apartments blocking the view.

Jet lag was not going to stop Marion, nor were Dad's list of
prohibitions and suggestions - \"Take care! Don't have the sugarcane
juice, there's typhoid around these days! Don't go on the Giant Wheel --
the seats are most unsafe! Mind your money, you'll get your pockets
picked! Stay together, all of you, don't lose each other in the crowd!
For God's sake don't let her eat that bhel, she'll be down with
diarrhea, so will all of you for that matter! Do you have our phone
number? Call home if you get separated from each other....\"

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Finally we were off! The streams of people on the road could be clearly
recognized as pre - or post -- fair. Those going to the fair in family
groups were pristine in appearance. That year's fashions in all their
garish splendour as yet unaffected by the crush of the crowds; candles
and garlands in hand; over-dressed and highly powdered babies in the
arms of parents; surrogate Ray Ban goggles and well greased puffs
topping the suit -- boot and tie brigades all thronging towards the
Church with prayer and piety as top priority.

Feather covered caps, *dholkis* and wailing noise-makers flattened
puffs, loosened ties, weakened wallets and bundles of sweets and gram,
pantograph cobras, soap bubble auras and bouncy water balloons were the
badges of the post-fair posse.

We were part of the first group and in a few hours would belong to the
latter. All the way up the steps, stalls with flowers, candles, black
gram, crunchy sugar pellets and soft drinks lined the way and their
vendors would thrust them into your face with the exhortation '*Antie*!
*Antie*, buy candil' all the while to the accompaniment of
bottle-openers being rattled across rows of Raspberry, Vimto, Lemonade
and Mangola. Marion, fresh from the land of Hallmark cards for all
occasions translated that concept comfortably to the candles and wanted
to know whether, in addition to the limbs, houses, cars, and babies,
there was something to signify a missing person. \"Who's missing?\" we
wanted to know. \"Dad hasn't heard from his brother Frank in some years
now - his letters and enquiries with friends in India haven't produced
any results or replies. While I'm here I'd like to check on my own, it's
what Dad would like. There may be some Nazareth cousins that I've never,
ever met. ....\"

\"The candles are just a token\", we told her. \"Pray anyway and we'll
all help to locate Uncle Frank\".

The maze of bamboo railings brought us finally shuffling and jostled
into the Church. Stepping back to permit the free flow of traffic in the
queue for offerings we looked around to re-fix the image of those
surroundings in our minds. This is where six family weddings had taken
place under the steadfast gaze of the statuesque Madonna, while Simon of
Cyrene, Veronica and an assortment of characters from the Stations of
the Cross bore silent witness from the surrounding murals. Despite the
crowds thronging the gravelled grounds outside, devotees with babies and
young children blowing kisses to the Virgin Mary, the sound decibels in
the church were hardly above a murmur as hundreds of people sent up
prayers of thanks and petition amidst the scent of flowers and the
flicker of candle flames.

Outside once more and tranquility was transformed instantaneously.
Another set of wide but shallow steps behind the Church led to the Fair.
On either side of the stairway, stalls with rosaries, medals, holy
pictures, crucifixes and candle stands stood shoulder to shoulder with
shops selling sweetmeats, toys and the omnipresent black gram. At some
stalls the gram was being roasted on the spot, filling the air with the
smell of coal smoke blended with warm gram mingling with the damp
tarpaulins that were meant to hold off monsoon showers. The grating,
scraping sounds of huge metal paddles turning the gram over in the large
*kadhais* were audible amidst the din of children blowing on bugles and
hundreds of vendors and buyers haggling over the prices that got steeper
and steeper with each passing year.

Huge mirrors in the sweet stalls ensured that you saw double -  double
arrangements of sweets stacked like castles, mounds of *laddoos*
shielded by yellow cellophane paper and nests of the brown and white
\"*Khario -- Borios*\" made by Goan cooks imported into Bandra
especially on account of the fair.

Occasionally, a starry zareba of bubbles crossed your path as the steps
ended on level ground and other sights and sounds added their own
contribution to the prevailing clamour. Sugarcane vendors with their
hands cupped behind their ears sang out their invitation to the
accompaniment of brass bells fitted onto the handles of their juicing
machines while the motors of the merry-go-rounds and the giant wheels
sounded their staccato beat. The motor-bike man in the well-of-death
revved up his engine in readiness for the next show. For us, the
remembered thrill of Bandra Fairs of the past gave us an idea of what we
liked especially and what we wanted to see and do first.

For Marion, everything was new, exciting and appealing so we decided to
do a quick inventory of the fair to its terminal point at Mount Carmel's
Church and then return to sample and savour each thrill individually.
Before that however, we pointed out to Marion the booth for missing
people situated between the Laughing Mirrors and the Beautiful Bombay
Photo Studio. \"In case we are separated,\" we told her, \"come back
here and we'll catch up with you.\" The crowds had thickened around us,
making this strategy necessary. Raju the Wonder Dog had impressed us
with his ability to return an assortment of watches to their rightful
owners, perform mathematical feats and acrobatic acts with aplomb.

In a little booth made of gunny sacking, on a raised platform, sat an
inscrutable Chinese woman surrounded by an assortment of coloured slabs
of rice dough, sticks, cottonwool, comb and tweezers. Here, in relative
silence, the audience deposited the 10 paise entrance fee and stood
around waiting for the show to begin. Presently, a white lump of dough
would be formed around the stick and in a few deft gestures could become
a kimono clad woman holding up a brilliant little paper parasol or a
white bearded angler with a tiny fish dangling from his fishing rod.
These rice flour creations sold at one rupee each and would smell sour
and rancid in a few days time, but Marion had to have a pair and we
re-emerged into the sunlight, figures held triumphantly if somewhat
precariously aloft to prevent injury through collision with the next
candyfloss wielding kid; the bamboo cobra straining on its pantographic
joints or the leering face with the combination spectacles, bulbous nose
plastic moustache and Bugs Bunny teeth.

Much care had to be taken of the family of blown glass swans filled with
luridly coloured water which were only ever seen at the fair. Likewise,
sets of clay pots painted gold would transfer the colour and distinctive
chemical odour to the fingers of careless handlers. Eating with these
painty fingers was not advisable and made vigourous wiping mandatory
because eating was mandatory too, especially as the savoury smoky smells
wafting from the *kababwalas chulas* became more and more imperative.
*Kababs*, candyfloss, colas and dripping ice-cream cones all combined to
challenge the expertise of serious gastroenterologists but happily such
expertise was not required despite the active churning to which the
Giant Wheel, Sea--On-Land and Galloping Horses subjected them.

Loaded down with bundles of glittering glass bangles, feathered caps,
bottles of bubbles and a sampling of sweets there was one last thing
left to do on this trip...Back to Beautiful Bombay Photo Studio to have
our picture taken. It was a toss-up as to who would ride the cardboard
Cadillac and who the macho motor-bike; but finally all was
satisfactorily settled in full view of the Eiffel Tower and the Taj
Mahal by moonlight. The picture would not be ready within our curfew
timings, so another trip to the fair would be necessary- not that anyone
was complaining. The Photo Studio being next door to the Lost Persons
Station, the last sounds we heard were that three year old Babloo was
waiting for his parents to pick him up...\....

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

The intervening two days had been spent entertaining the usual groups of
friends and family who came from far off Vasai, Colaba and even from
Pune. This time it was not simply the Church and the fair that drew
them, but also the chance to welcome Marion to India. She had gifts for
all her cousins, aunts and uncles, including the missing Uncle Frank.
This labeled, unclaimed parcel sat on the living room table like a
combined Act of Faith and Hope ..... How soon could one expect the
miracle to occur, Marion wanted to know \...  Obviously this was not a
matter of WHETHER \...\...But WHEN...!

Using a quiet period in the lull between the departure of guests and a
fresh batch of arrivals we raced off to the fair. The Laughing Mirror
had us in splits; Raju the Wonder Dog was great as usual; Cigarette
smoking had not yet been termed 'injurious to health', so the
sailor-suited men on 7 foot high stilts stalked through the crowds
advertising Cavender's cigarettes. On his wooden platform outside the
rickety Well of Death, Valentino the Great revved up his motorbike while
preening and posing, tossing his red silk scarf over his satin shirted
shoulder - his cowboy leather boots and his yellowish bouffant hairstyle
all creating the mystique that lured us into parting with our eight
annas and joining the throngs already filling up the spectator space at
the top of the well.

With just enough time to buy some Calicut *Halwa* and pick up our
photographs we were suddenly stopped in our tracks...a 'missing person'
message was being announced - RAVEENA! RAVEENA NUJJARETH! \"Hey\" said
Marion . \"Are they saying Rowena? Rowena Nazareth ?\" \"RAVEENA,
RAVEENA Your daddy Frank is waiting for you!

\"Yes!\" said Marion \"It's GOT to be my uncle Frank and his daughter
Rowena\".

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 
