[Back to Golden Bandra](index.htm)

# Historical Tidbits

(Historical and other information from the personal researches of Mr
Clarence Fernandes)

Storm of 1618

On 17th May 1618 a great storm broke over Bombay, Salsette and Bassein.
The Church of St. Andrew, Bandra was unroofed. Thirty five churches in
the Bombay-Salsette-Bassein region were destroyed, among them five
entrusted to the secular clergy. (\'Our Vineyard\' & other sources)

Bandra in Anglo-Portuguese Agreement - 1665

Bandra is mentioned twice in the fourteen conditions placed before the
English delegates who had arrived in Goa to attend to the formalities of
receiving Bombay from the Portuguese.

**Condition No. 2.** That the port of Bandra in the island of Salsette
nor any of the other islands shall be impeded, and all vessels from that
port or ports, and others coming to them shall be allowed to pass and
repass very freely, and the English gentlemen shall not allege that they
pass under their guns, because it is under this condition that the
island is delivered to them, and they cannot expect more than what is
granted to them by the *Articles of Peace* and the *Marriage Treaty*.

**Condition No. 7.** That the inhabitants of the said islands of
Salsette, Karanja and Baragool , and of other places of our
jurisdiction, shall freely fish in the said bay and river, and in the
arm of the sea which enters and divides Bombay from Salsette by Bandra
till the bay, and the English gentlemen shall not any time prevent them,
nor will they at any time and under any pretence whatever demand any
tribute on this account, and the inhabitants of Bombay shall be allowed
to do the same with the same liberty and freedom.

There were in all fourteen conditions, given at Panjim , the 24th
January 1665.

The *Instrument of Possession,* a separate document, was written at
Panjim and dated 10th January 1665.

The English took possession of Bombay on 18th February, 1665. (Danvers:
History of the Portuguese in India)

 

Arab raid on Bandra

1700 - On February 27 an Arab expedition from Muscat, comprising 2,000
men in 7 boats, made a surprise raid on Versova, slaughtered the
miniscule Portuguese garrison, and then moved southward, ravaging the
three villages all along the coast upto Bandra. The Portuguese garrison
of Bandra combined with the Portuguese detachment from Manapacer - Mount
Poinsur - and attacked the Arabs on March 9, 1700. In the course of a
battle which took place between Bandra and Kurla, the Arabs were
defeated losing 600 men. The Arab commander withdrew from the scene. The
Viceroy, Antonio Luis Gonsalves da Camara Coutinho, writing to the King
of Portugal on 19th January 1701 stated that the Portuguese losses were
a few guard boats of the coastal villages; the artillery - 7 pieces of
Versova and those of Bandra; the casualties were 7 dead and and 60
wounded; the church of Versova had been burnt; and at Bandra the church
of Santa Anna with the attached Jesuit residence had escaped destruction
only due to the timely Portuguese intervention and subsequent victory of
March 9, 1700. (\'Our Vineyard & Humbert: Catholic Bombay\')

A Bishop's visit to Bandra

The Bishop of Malacca, Dom Frei Manoel de Santo Antonio,came from Timor
to Goa. The see of Goa being vacant , and as the Province of the North
had been neglected as far as canonical visitations were concerned, he
was asked to proceed to the North Province as Visitor-General, and also
authorised to administer confirmations. He was in Bandra in the middle
of May 1716. He visited other parts of Salsette and Bassein. He stayed
in Bassein so long that the Portuguese authorities urged him to return
to Timor. This bishop wrote to the king of Portugal suggesting that
Bassein be made a see with its own bishop; but the King, after receiving
the views of his Viceroy, turned down the suggestion. This bishop
although styled of Malacca, resided in Timor because the Dutch who had
captured Malacca from the Portuguese in 1641 would not allow a Catholic
bishop to function in their territory. (\"Our Vineyard\' & baptismal
Register of Santa Anna)

 

[Back to St Andrew Home Page](index.htm)
