![](XavierPlaquex.jpg){border="0" width="208" height="273"}

Evidence of a Heritage\
under Siege\
HR

![](ranwar70SMx.jpg){border="0" width="350" height="280"}

**X**avier House, one of the older buildings in the heart of Ranwar,
photographed here as it stood up until around 1999. The present
structure was built in 1841. (The carved wooden plaque above, was
embedded in the wall over the main entrance of the house. The IHS
symbollises 'Christ' and below it, the three nails used to crucify
Christ, pierce His heart symbolically).

 

This rambling, spacious bungalow was typical of the buildings in
villages like Ranwar. It had a quaint veranda, with two plain teak
benches and wrought iron railings, where passers by used to drop in to
chat during the day or evening. The rooms were large and airy and the
high wooden ceiling, held a loft that extended through the building.
There was a wide garden to the east and a sprawling compound behind the
bungalow with two large outhouses, a huge, gnarled tamarind tree, over a
hundred years old, an equally tall jambool tree and several coconut
palms.

 

The property was sold to a developer and the original building was
demolished at the start of the new millennium.

 

A photograph shows the partly demolished building with the rooms
exposed. The walls were constructed using bricks and white limestone
*ladhis* that were typical of the area. The loft floor and the roof were
constructed using solid teak beams that withstood the ravages of time
and termites but finally gave way to development in the form of a
multistoryed concrete and steel behemoth.

 

Despite its inappropriate location in a gaothan and heritage area the
multi-unit apartment stands as stark evidence of the pressures which
villages like Ranwar, Pali, Sherly and Rajan are subject to. The sewer
lines, laid in the 1920s were never intended for the huge number of
housing units that now have sprung up, with the result that the drains
perennially clog and back up. The narrow lanes cannot handle the vastly
increased through-traffic and the parking spaces required to accommodate
resident vehicles, so that the quiet street, reflecting widespread
changes in Bandra, is a chaotic, noisy thoroughfare with traffic jams
occurring at bottlenecks, several times each day.

 

![](XavDemo02Smx.jpg){border="0" width="350" height="280"}

![](RanwBhatBldg1Smx.jpg){border="0" width="350" height="280"}

![](QuereshiViewRanwar2SMx.jpg){border="0" width="354" height="283"}
