[Back to the St Andrew\'s Home Page](index.htm)

January - February 2001

From The Desk Of The Parish Priest

Dear Parishioners

Right on the day when the Andrean Notes will come to you, our parish
will be celebrating \"Adoration Day\". In earlier days it used to be
called the \"XIII Hours Adoration\". It is now called, just plain
\"Adoration Day\" for the simple reason that the Blessed Sacrament is no
more exposed for 13 hours as before (for reasons liturgical) but only
after the last Mass in the morning until the last Benediction in the
evening, which works up to about eight hours.

You may ask, \"what is this 'Adoration Day' all about? Well, the purpose
of 'Adoration Day' is to give **due** honour to Jesus Christ in the
Eucharist. Although Jesus is truly present in the Blessed Sacrament and
is worthy of our love, honour and attention, yet we are unable to give
Him the honour that is **due** to Him. So, one day in a year, the whole
parish, as one community, tries to give the Eucharistic Christ the
honour and reverence that are **due** to Him. This is done in three
specific ways, thus :

1\. Since Jesus has given Himself as a love gift to us in the Eucharist
every parishioner is expected to make it a point to celebrate the
Eucharist fully and receive Holy Communion on Adoration Day.

2\. After sharing Himself as \"Bread of Life\" in the Eucharist, Jesus
stays with us in the Blessed Sacrament of the Altar, as He desires to be
with us \"till the end of time\". His continual presence with us calls
for a response from us to spend time with Him, praising, thanking,
adoring and loving Him and praying for our needs. But we cannot always
do this because we have to work and do our other duties - and He wants
us to do that too! So, one day in a year, we parishioners, **as one
body**, acknowledge His presence and show our gratitude to Him by paying
Him a visit in the Blessed Sacrament. Here again, as we cannot be with
Him the whole day (some do!) we do it in turns (with our Small Christian
Communities) so that the whole parish, **as a body** does Him the honour
that is **due** to Him.

3\. We culminate this Adoration Day with a public demonstration showing
that we believe that Jesus is truly present in the Blessed Sacrament and
that He deserves to be honoured not only privately but also publicly as
Lord and King. Hence, the procession through the streets of the parish.
This procession is a public demonstration of the **whole parish** of our
faith in the true Presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament and that He
is our Lord and King. Hence, the grand decorations of the streets and
the altars. This also calls for a devotional and prayerful procession.
Any talking or joking while in the procession would be a counter-sign!

It follows from this that the **whole parish** should take part in the
above mentioned triple honour to the Eucharistic Lord and particularly
in the concluding service in the evening which consists of Benediction
in the Church, the renewal of the consecration of Bandra and our parish
to Christ the King, the procession and the final Benediction.

My observation is that not everybody takes part in the Concluding
Service. Probably it is because not everybody understands the real
meaning of Adoration Day and the purpose of the Grand Concluding
Service. I hope with the above explanation, all our parishioners will
understand its meaning and respond with a devotion that is befitting the
occasion.

Given the solemnity of the day, it is befitting that this should be
reflected in the home during the day. Parishioners should therefore
refrain from taking up any social or sports engagements on Adoration
Day. They should also refrain from fixing marriages or baptisms or any
other celebration on Adoration Day and give the whole day to the Lord.

Another question that could be asked is: \"why is Adoration Day held in
February?\" The reason is because the whole of Bandra (together with our
parish) was consecrated to Christ the King on 3rd February, 1935 in our
church compound before the statue of Christ the King that stands in
front of the church. Hence, the Sunday following the 3rd of February is
always observed as Adoration Day. If the whole of Bandra cannot gather
together (as it did in 1935) then let the whole of the parish of St.
Andrew gather together to give **due** honour to our Lord Jesus Christ
on every Adoration Day.

Fr. Peter Drego

 

#### Communities E,F,G,H {#communities-efgh align="left"}

Our Zone **participated** in the Novena Mass in preparation for St.
Andrew's Feast on Saturday, November 25, 2000 at 7.15 p.m. Fr. Anthony
D'Souza celebrated the Eucharist. The theme for our Mass was *'We are a
Church that is one in faith and worship'.* The families of our
communities were requested to bring food items as offerings and the
response was overwhelming. Later, our band of SVP members distributed
these offerings to the poor families of our Parish.

Also, this year, the *Andrean Mela* on St. Andrew's grounds on Sunday,
December 3, was wholly organised by the SCCs for the first time. Each
community was asked to prepare different types of snacks. We prepared
assorted sandwiches. It was an excellent opportunity for the core groups
and others of our zone to work as a team for a common goal. There was
fellowship and each one put in his/her best efforts to make the feast
day a success. Thank you one and all.

Ivan Fernandes

Holy Angels Community (G, North)

The Andrean Mela was a celebration where our Community members came
together to help in preparing the sandwiches which were to be sold at
the Mela. Every member's suggestion and pair of hands helped to complete
the task in record time. We decided to make extra sandwiches and gave
them to the cast of *'The Witness'* who are evangelizing through superb
performance.

Ronnie Pereira

Community  Q

The month of November was specially dedicated to the reflection, study
and sharing on the Word of God. An average of 10 - 12 members attended.
We are very grateful to Terence and Beryl Fon, Ember Lobo and John
Fernandes for conducting these sessions every week. Two members of our
group took part in the skit that was put up during the parish novena.
Our community also took active part in helping at the parish Andrean
Mela. We put up a snack bar and succeeded in collecting a substantial
amount of money. We thank all our members for giving of their time. Two
members took part in the Telegames and came out winners!

M. D'Souza

Communities X,Y & Z

\"**To Err is human** but to forgive is divine\"

A very obvious shift in the church's perception of the role of the laity
was evident in the celebration of the feast of St. Andrew, heralded by a
nine-day novena. The SCC laity of community X,Y and Z used their
creativity and talent to prepare the liturgy for one day of the novena
on December1st. The theme was \"Forgiveness\".

\"To err is human but to forgive is divine\" was lucidly brought out in
a little skit, which was enacted instead of the homily. A person may
feel tormented (twin roles played by Winnie Lobo and Maria D'Souza)
without realizing that emotions of anger, bitterness, jealousy, hatred,
frustration etc., have been activated by the devil and his imp (roles
played by Mildred Pereira and Bernard Reis) to the disappointment of the
Guardian Angel (Manuella Reis).

Negative thoughts give rise to pessimistic attitudes resulting in an
outburst of physical symptoms such as hypertension, diabetes, heart
condition, etc. which we often relate to diagnostic causes rather than
to an abrasion in our spiritual life.

A few SCC members (Lucy, Rose, Lynnette, Rosalind and Cecilia) were able
to delve into the deep-rooted cause of the problem, in this case,
resentment for a family member over a property dispute. An admission of
this fact, not without a deep psychological struggle, emancipated the
tormented person to a realization that God is the greatest healer, if
only we trust in Him fully and we forgive, love and pray for the person
who has hurt us. The tormented person then unwound herself and started
feeling lighter and better.

Book marks with the picture and prayer of St. Francis of Assisi, were
distributed to all the faithful at the beginning of the mass and these
were raised at the offertory, the Celebrant, Fr. Vincent Pereira,
Director of the Community, inviting the people to recognize any negative
thoughts or feelings they had and to surrender them to the Lord.

Maria D'Souza

Report on the Andrean Mela 

In mid-November a meeting of representatives of SCCs was called for to
chalk out a programme for the Andrean Mela to be held on December 03,
2000 on the St. Andrew's Grounds. Fr. Terence was the main co-ordinator.
Innovative ideas were called for which would mean involving communities
to fulfil the theme '

Communion of Communities'.

At the first meeting, which was well represented, a general programme
was debated upon which would include games, food, entertainment and
sundry sales. Emphasis was laid on designing a 'democratic Mela' i..e
primarily for the people, by the people and of the people of St.
Andrew's Parish. This led to a serious debate of entry passes being
restricted to Andreans only, which was dismissed at the next meeting, as
it didn't seem practical. The second meeting emerged with constructive
ideas and unanimous decisions by representatives of communities.
Committees were formed to co-ordinate the various tasks in putting up
such a show. Each community was requested to provide 100 plates of
snacks and with all the snacks snapped up by the end of that evening,
the variety of fare was well appreciated and indeed enjoyed by all. Two
communities ventured into taking charge of the soft drinks stall and
they were certainly not disappointed. Assured sales of snacks were taken
care of by way of pre-sales of coupons for snacks & soft drinks amongst
the communities. Table sales took care of some of the overheads and also
a diversion for the 'compulsive shopper'. A fair profit has resulted in
reaching out towards the dire needs of the Andrean Social Service
Evening School for the underprivileged being run by a dedicated few in
our Parish School at St. Andrew's.

The evening began with tele-games conducted by the Andrean Youth with
participation at community level followed by games at various stalls. A
variety of stage programmes throughout the evening involving all age
groups kept the crowds glued to the stage. No one can dispute the fact
that the Andrean Youth kept the Andreans on their toes all evening
without a dull moment. Considering the short notice and few hands that
put up this event and seeing the large numbers on the grounds that
evening, it would be fitting to conclude that the Mela was indeed a huge
success and the Andrean Family looks forward to another such delightful
evening.

Sheila Pereira

The \'Yes\' Man 

'**Yes', 'Sure'**, 'Okay','I'll do it'.

These words were second nature to Jolly D'Souza. After a multitude of
yes's, he said his final YES when God called him on that most auspicious
day -- December 3, 2000, his birthday coinciding with St. Francis
Xavier's Feast and the Parish Feast of St. Andrew. No task was too
arduous for him, be it the community or anybody else. He was a familiar
cheery figure on Chimbai Road, briskly bustling about and greeting
people as he passed. Who didn't know Jolly!!! We are deeply distressed
by his absence and can visualize the pain and anguish of his wife Gail
and three children. They have our most profound sympathy.

The chasm he has left may never be filled. An upright and religious
person, he shone as a sportsman in his younger days especially as a
bowler. God has finally bowled Jolly into His Pavilion of Paradise just
beyond his half-century mark. May the Lord rest his soul!!

Core Group Members,Communities 'C'&'D'

 Our Golden Girl 

The eldest member of our Community, Mrs. Vera Rocha residing at 'Bandra
Shelter' celebrated her 90th birthday on December 19, 2000. At this
golden age, she keeps perfect health. A daily mass-goer, ever cheerful
and a great source of encouragement, she stops to chat as anyone and
everyone is her dear friend. Reaching out to others, in sickness or in
health, Vera is always there for her neighbours and friends with her
prayers, motherly guidance and even a home cooked meal.

On her 90th birthday, nine of our core group leaders pleasantly
surprised her that morning with floral greetings. Tears of joy ran down
her cheeks as we sang 'Happy Birthday' to her. It was a wonderful sight
for us to see her children and their families as also the dear great
grand children who had travelled from various parts of the world for
this lovely occasion. The family and friends celebrated a thanksgiving
'Eucharist' with Fr. Clement D'Lima later that evening.

May God bless Vera and keep her in perfect health to celebrate a hundred
years!!

Thelma Lewis Community 'L'

 Good over evil 

The triumph of good over evil was so beautifully related to us when at
the Community Mass of New Kantwadi held on January 9th, Fr. Rufus
Pereira, the healing preacher and a former resident of this peaceful
village, calmed our apprehensions about the evil doings of Satan and his
henchmen.

Jealousy and hatred towards our neighbours were the principal cause of
many of our problems. Fr. Rufus highlighted the power of forgiveness
without which our prayers and offerings were meaningless. Petitions,
written on slips of paper and put forward by the large congregation were
burnt during the Mass as an offering. Each of us were given the power to
suppress evil doings in the form of blessed salt and water which we were
told to sprinkle into every room of our homes and also to be used as a
counter measure to any evil cast upon us. The Mass was followed by
individual blessings from Fr. Rufus. The 'mysterious box' that Fr. Rufus
carried along contained a piano accordion. He accompanied us to a lively
sing-song of hymns enjoyed by everyone.

It was encouraging to see the youth of our Community organizing such a
beautiful service. Belinda Pereira led them with strong support from
Agnes Miranda who has woken this sleepy village into an energetic band
of friendly neighbours.

New Kantwadi Community 

New Kantwadi came up with their shooting stars in November, an energetic
youth group who organised the Children's Day Programme on November 14th.
A party was held with a Drawing Competition for kids followed by games
for everyone. It was a great success for the young organizers.

Along with the Core group members, the Youth Group of the New Kantwadi
organised a Christmas get-together on December 17th where we focused on
sharing and inter-acting with one another. The venue was the New
Kantwady village itself with a turnout of 250 people who came with the
greatest enthusiasm of enjoying themselves. Santa drove the crowds round
the village accompanied by the eldest and the youngest of the village.
Games for all age groups and spot prizes kept the crowds entertained all
evening. After a sumptuous dinner, Santa saving the best for the last,
distributed gifts to the eager little kiddies. This is a party that will
be remembered for a long, long time.

Belinda Pereira

Chiara Lubich visits India 

Chiara Lubich, foundress of the Focolare Movement visited India between
December 28, 2000 to January 16, 2001. The Focolare Family of Mumbai
together with members from others cities and neighbouring countries
enjoyed the privilege of extending their greetings to Chiara at the St.
Andrew's Auditorium on Sunday, January 14th. The function opened with
the Eucharistic Celebration with Archbishop Ivan Dias as the main
celebrant followed by a cultural programme portraying the diversity of
Indian culture in the form of song and dance and concluded with a Q&A
Session.

The Focolare Movement 

During World War II, Chiara, aged 20 was a school teacher in Trent,
Italy. While everything around Chiara and her companions was being
destroyed, including their plans and ambitions, she realized that only
the Gospel values were indestructible. They, therefore, decided to live
the Gospel and put into practice the word of God. They not only loved
one another but their neighbours too and shared with them the little
that they had. Unity and brotherhood were a natural outcome of their
unconditional love. It was only be observing how they lived, that others
chose to join them. Today, the Movement has spread to 182 countries and
has led to the spiritual renewal of more than two million people
worldwide, belonging to different ages, cultures, races and religions.

The Movement aims at a united world, where all men live in peace as
loving members of one big family.

L. Gonsalves

Parish Advent Mission 

Our Parish celebrated the entry into the new Millennium with an Advent
Mission preached by our very own Fr. Rufus Pereira from December 11 to
16, 2000, organised by the Parish Charismatic Prayer Group. The urge for
a spiritual renewal drew large crowds who not only attentively heard the
Word being preached, but were eager to receive the Lord's healing
through Fr. Rufus' hands.

The crowds who daily thronged the Church were reminded that repentance
and reconciliation with God and one another was an important requirement
to receive physical healing and deliverance from bondage to various
habits. The personal Testimonies of various individuals helped to
emphasize this.

The Bosco Hall was a witness to uncontrollable crowds eager to receive
the healing touch both before and after the Eucharist. Impromptu
testimonies by those healed were made in the Hall well past midnight.
People were encouraged to continue in prayer and fellowship weekly by
attending the Parish Charismatic Prayer Group every Thursday at 7.30
p.m. at the Bosco Hall.

Parish Charismatic Prayer Group

Andrean Appreciation Day 

Come February and Andreans tick off February 14 as Andrean Appreciation
Day. This brilliant concept of Fr. Terence Murray conceived 3 years ago
has only gained more popularity each passing year and is here to stay
with us.

 

For newcomers and those not in tune with the Andrean vibes, February 14
is a special day in our Parish. This is a day when we pull in the reins
and stop for a few precious moments in our fast-paced lives to show our
appreciation to others. One day rolls into the next, struggling to climb
up that ladder of success, striving to achieve those impossible goals,
buckling to meet the kids' demands and we dizzily ride on that
roller-coaster ride we call 'life'.

Do we ever stop to think who makes these things happen and how well life
is treating us? It takes one to make another happy and if you believe in
the magic of happiness, grab that Appreciation Card and show your
appreciation to those who give meaning to your 'life' and show that you
care.

P.S.: Cards will be available at the Parish Office, Legion Stall and
with your Community leaders. Please make sure that you obtain your cards
well in advance so as to avoid disappointment.

Bitterness can cripple you 

Do you wish to enjoy an unfettered life - a life unshackled in your
attitude towards people? Sure, you'd want to. For to function
effectively and to enjoy living, you have to be unchained emotionally to
the many resentments that flesh is heir to.

Perhaps you have been cheated of your share of the family property while
you were away. You're enraged and cannot get over it. A loved one is
snatched away by sudden death! 'God! How could you have done that to
me?' you cry out in bitter anguish. Hurts like these can arouse anger.
Such emotions cause resentments. Brooded on, they lead to bitterness.

Life is beset with occasions in plenty to generate resentment against
people. But being resentful fetters one's activity. We wake up
unrefreshed because we turned over in bed the night before grappling
with our resentments. We bruise ourselves while shaving because we allow
resentful thoughts to plague us. We endanger our safety while driving
being unable to concentrate on the road. And at work, our emotional
energy is drained away. We are ineffective in all we do.

Is there a way to handle such emotions? The story of Joseph in Genesis,
Ch. 39 onwards, shows the way: even though his brothers threw him into a
pit and sold him away, Joseph held no grievance against them. Even
though Potipher's wife accused him after vainly trying to seduce him,
Joseph bore no grudge against her and did not report her to her husband.
Joseph had interpreted the cupbearer's dream and the latter was freed
from prison as predicted. But he forgot to inform Pharaoh about Joseph
who was languishing in prison. So Joseph remained another two years in
jail. Yet, Joseph did not harbour any resentment against him. Joseph
forgave them all.

While resentment and bitterness enter uninvited into our lives, God has
made a way to handle these emotions effectively. 'Forgive!' says the
Bible. Not once, not twice, but seventy times seven! It may not be
possible to do this on your own. You need divine help to be able to
forgive. 'Ask and it will be given you ...... For everyone who asks
receives'.

After their father Jacob died, the brothers were afraid of what might
befall them at the hands of Joseph. They felt secure while their father
was alive. But now they began to fear for their lives. They went up to
their brother, Joseph, to seek his forgiveness. Joseph said to them: 'As
for you, you meant evil against me; but God meant it for good'. Joseph,
now governor of Egypt spoke reassuringly to his brothers: 'Do not fear;
I will provide for you and your little ones'.

'Get rid of bitterness,' exhorts the Apostle Paul in his letter to the
Ephesian Church. Harbouring resentment and bitterness only cripples our
lives and smothers the joy of living. Amy Carmichael, an Irish
missionary, once said, 'Nothing anyone can do to us can injure us unless
we allow it to cause a wrong reaction in our spirits'.

We can learn to handle a wrong reaction by first learning to forgive.

Wilfred A. D'Souza

**Winners of the Crib Competition **

1st Prize : St. Paul Road (Central)\
- Crib put up at 'Joanna'

2nd Prize : St. Paul Road (South)\
- Crib put up at 'Phoenix'

3rd Prize : D'Monte Park Road\
- Crib put up at 'Annarissa'

Special Prize was awarded to the Ocean View Community

 

First Prize:\
**Sacred Heart of Jesus Community** The timing was perfect so was the
mood, setting and décor. Participating in a team was the forte of the
three youths, Clinton, Randall and Nigel, assisted by two adults, Errol
and Connel. With breezy, light hearted, natural efforts, they jointly
set up the crib in the compound of *'JOANNA*', St. Paul Road.

The glowing red globe, an extremely right setting that was readied by
Clinton, was well placed to depict effectively on the theme '*Christ
Yesterday, Today & Forever'.* The outcome was wonderful. Community 'F'
sailed through and stood first place.

Second Prize

St. Teresa of Avila

To get our parishioners into the true spirit of Christmas, St. Andrew's
Church organizes its usual Community Crib Competition in December 2000.
The theme '

Christ Yesterday, Today & Forever'.

Our Community 'H', St. Teresa of Avila which includes the buildings and
cottages between Archlyn and Mello Ville on both sides of St. Paul Road
\[S\], set about preparing its crib with great enthusiasm. Fleta and
Belinda Remedios were the main members who designed, drew and painted
the enormous backdrop and figures of St. Joseph & Our Blessed Virgin
Mary with Baby Jesus. Core group members Freeda, Margaret and Ivan set
up the crib in the compound of 'Phoenix' with the help of some community
members.

The weather too decided to test the community's interest in the crib
competition. The strong winds and rain kept Freeda busy in maintaining
the crib for the 'D' Day - December 28, when the cribs would be judged.
We are proud and mighty pleased to state that our crib won the 2nd
place. *CONGRATS!!* Core group & Community members who tirelessly helped
in achieving this success. God Bless You.

Third Prize

Holy Angels Community

Each aspect of the theme \"Christ Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow\" was
well depicted. 'Christ Yesterday' was depicted as baby Jesus in the crib
at Bethlehem. 'Christ Today' was depicted with photographs of youth
pasted on Stars and hung on a Christmas Tree. 'Christ Tomorrow' was
depicted with a group photograph of our Community members pasted on a
large picture of the Sun with the words \"Christ forever in the Holy
Angels Community. Truly a community effort !

 

Special Crib Prize Winner 

It all started when Nicole our area representative informed us about the
Crib Competition happening in our Parish...we literally summoned kids
from around who were enthusiastic to help us. As we progressed in our
efforts we were encouraged by people from our area with material, advise
and occasionally even a li'l nibble! Finally on the eve of Christmas
sometime before we left for midnight Mass, we accomplished what we set
out to do -- frantically working towards completing our crib so that we
could receive Christ on that very night in our little home we built for
him.

Working on a shoe string budget, we used a mango crate picked up from
the street for a crib, someone brought wire to hang it up from the
support, paints and thermocol somehow just fell into our hands and our
considerate neighbours provided the light connections. Much to our
amazement, our crib received a special prize, which we owe to the
genuine enthusiasm and intitiative of the members of our Community. In
the process not only did we do something for Christmas but we also
learnt much about each other and the people we live with!

Dwayne Vaz, Ocean View Community

**Senior Citizens\' Christmas Party* ***

December 17, 2000 was a red-letter day for the Senior Citizens of our
Parish. It began with 9.30 a.m. Mass with appropriate offertory gifts
and prayers of the faithful specially dedicated to the Senior Citizens.
Soon after the Service, a Senior Citizens Choir entertained their fellow
folk with Carols who spontaneously joined in. The rest of the morning
was spent at the Bosco Hall with fun and games where Santa delighted
everyone distributing sweets and goodies to all. Sumptuous snacks and
coffee was served. Nestle's and the Organizers' contributions took care
of the prizes and some of the gifts. As each Senior Citizen brought
along a gift and put it in a box, everyone could take home a 'surprise
gift'. The morning whizzed past but well spent and soon it was time to
make our way home, but we look forward to more such occasions with
suggestions, sponsors and donors.

Senior Citizens Committee

 

Milestones:

**Baptisms**

**Name of Parents**

**Baptised               **

**Name of Child**

Bosco and Conception Serrao

09.12.2000

Allan Savio

Jude J. & Megan R. Gonsalves

16.12.2000

Kenneth Le Roy

Colonel C and Akkara E. Kurian

20.12.2000

Anna 

Ralph Anil & Floella Rodrigues

28.12.2000

Sally Ann Ethel

Anthony M. and Paras Pereira

14.01.2001

Anish 

**Marriages**

**Name of Couple**

**Married On**

Ryan Neale J. de Melo and Dezma L Menezes

10.12.2000

Andrew J. Lobo and Sunita P. D'Souza

15.12.2000

Henrick F. Barretto and Claire D. Araujo

15.12.2000

Hamid Ali Khan and Maria A. Dias

20.12.2000

Allen G. M. Lobo and Anna Belle R. Sequeira

23.12.2000

Ivor A. D'Abreo and Michelle Ann A. Fernandez 

27.12.2000

James Dharmai and Leena P. Falcon 

28.12.2000

George Pinto and Harriet C. Ferens

 28.12.2000

Rafatulla Parkar and Priya Ann Nunes

29.12.2000

Avin P. D'Silva and Neelam C. Lobo

30.12.2000

Christopher A D\'Souza & Lynnstell L \'Mello 

1.1.2001

Neil Menezes & Eureka A Menezes

3.1.2001

Alwyn A Miranda & Anita R D\'Souza 

4.1.2001

Grenville J Ferreira & Samantha A. Pinto

5.1.2001

Roger M Quadros & Melissa S. D\'Souza

6.1.2001

Dinesh A. Sebastian & Shilpa Figer

7.1.2001

Garreth R C Fernandes & Natasha A Fernandes 

17.1.2001

**Deaths**

**Name**

**Died On**

**Age**

 Alex (Alexio) Sequeira

 4.12.2000

 71 yrs.

Catherine D'Souza

07.12.2000

85 yrs.

Stanislaus J. Rozario

09.12.2000

70 yrs.

Hilda Bernadine Sylva

21.12.2000

80 yrs.

Rodney Furtado

21.12.2000

41 yrs.

Andrew Francis Rana

25.12.2000

81 yrs.

Christine Menezes

26.12.2000

82 yrs

John Soares

 07.01.2001

84 yrs.

Peter Philip D'Souza

12.01.2001

69 yrs.

Edmund Gerard Sequeira

15.01.2001

78 yrs.

[Back to the St Andrew\'s Home Page](index.htm)
