[Back to the St Andrew\'s Home Page](index.htm)

June 2001

From The Desk Of The Parish Priest

Dear Parishioners

After two years we will be having Confirmations in our church. Why this
gap? While before we used to give Confirmation to children of Std. IX,
we will now be giving Confirmation to those who are in College doing
their Std. XI. Why this change?

Firstly, because Confirmation is a Sacrament of Growth. It is,
therefore, kept for the time of teenage, a period when a boy is growing
up to be a man and a girl is growing up to be a woman. At this time
there are different forces within them and around them and they need
special guidance to be adult Christians.

Secondly, Confirmation is a Sacrament of Maturity. With Confirmation, a
person becomes a mature Christian. Our experience shows that students of
Std. IX are too immature and frivolous to grasp the responsibilities of
life. When they are in school, they are still under their parents and at
this stage they are not yet ready to take responsibility for themselves.
Once they are in college, they feel freer and more responsible and are
better equipped to understand the adult world. They are also free from
any exam fever and the homework bug. With this background we hope that
they will be able to assimilate the training better and respond as
adults.

The Confirmation syllabus pre-supposes that the applicants for
Confirmation have already the background of what has been taught in the
school and in the Sunday School. The Confirmation Catechesis builds on
regular school and Sunday School Catechesis. Hence, they will have to
produce the certificate that that they received at the end of the Good
News Classes. (Therefore the children attending the Good News Classes
have to keep their attendance certificates carefully so as to be able to
produce them when applying for Confirmation).

Parents of those applying for Confirmation will have to also sign
together with their children, the agreement of regular attendance and
commitment to the training. Training sessions will be held every Sunday
after the Children's Mass. Application forms for Confirmation will be
available at the Parish Office from 11th June and should be submitted to
the Parish Office with their Baptism certificate (for those baptized
outside St. Andrew's Parish) by 25th June. Late comers will not be
accepted as every session is important and is linked with the other.
Hence, those who miss more than two sessions without serious reasons
will not be given Confirmation. We expect both the students and the
parents to take the training seriously and co-operate with the
Catechists and Animators who have volunteered to train the students to
receive this important Sacrament of Confirmation in a befitting manner.

Fr. Peter Drego

 

Devotion to the Sacred Heart

 

The heart is the centre of human vitality, the life-centre and the
natural symbol of life, says Vijay Prabhu, while reflecting on devotion
to the Sacred Heart of Jesus in his book \"Come let us Celebrate\". The
heart is also the most common representative symbol of our most sacred
and inmost feelings. That is why Christ chose his 'heart' to reveal his
love.

Devotion to the Sacred Heart, says, Prabhu, is based on Holy Scripture.
It has its origin in Calvary when a lance of the soldier pierced the
Heart of Jesus. The visible growth of the Church in the world is seen
symbolically in the blood and water, which flowed out of the opening in
the side of Jesus on the Cross.

The early Christians looked on the crucified Saviour and with veneration
and love contemplated his wounds, especially the wound on his side.
Later on, men were drawn to venerate the heart of Christ itself and
applied to it what early Christians had said of the wound in his side.

Prabhu says, \"Our Lord's manifestation of his Heart in the mystical
apparitions to St. Margaret Mary, played a great part in the development
and spread of this devotion. Through these revelations, Christ
manifested the ardent desire of his love to pour itself out for men.

The Sacred Heart is both a living sign of Christ's love for us and a
summary of the whole mystery of our redemption. \"God so loved the world
that he gave his only Son that whoever believes in him should not perish
but have eternal life\" (Jn. 3-16).

There are two aspects of our devotion to the Sacred Heart --
consecration and reparation. These are the expressions of our loving
response as pardoned sinners. This consecration and reparation must be
realised, must receive their flesh and blood, by making the cares and
concerns of Christ's heart our own care and concern. We must re-live and
reproduce those human values for which Christ's heart bled.

Jesus has a heart that is truly human; a heart that loves both friends
and enemies; is merciful to sinners; shares the sorrows of the poor and
the less fortunate; allows itself to be pierced as a sign of supreme
love for mankind.

Prabhu asks a few questions as a test of whether we are true devotees of
the Sacred Heart. Have we a heart that is truly human? Do we sincerely
love and forgive those who sin against us? Are our hearts ready to share
the sorrows and miseries of our neighbourhood? Do we come to the aid of
the needy and give of ourselves in a self-sacrificing love?

As we celebrate devotion to the Sacred Heart during the month of June,
let us ask ourselves some of these questions and respond as devotees
should to the Sacred Heart of Jesus.

Janina Gomes

Dil Se

God loves us very much. He has carved us on the palms of his hands. We
may forget God, but God never forgets us. His greatest gift to us is
Jesus. Jesus loves us very much, for though he was the Son of God, on
earth he was a man. In this human capacity, Jesus was so humble to wash
all our weaknesses on the cross by his death, thereby emptying himself
totally for us. Jesus was a man for others, so humble was his heart. We
too can get this gift to be humble of heart like Jesus in our actions
and reactions with others like the Sacred Heart of Jesus, if only we
want it, by giving 100%, not 99% or 98%. I say this because if we are
given water with 98% or 99% purity and 1% or 2% dirt, will we drink the
water?

If we follow the few principles Jesus taught us as enumerated below we
too will no longer allow people to make us doormats -- for humility does
not mean being docile. Many a time, I have come across a good human
being, humiliated beyond tolerance limits, but by following the Sacred
Heart's 100% humility, they have used their pain to turn their scars
into STARS. It would be nice if we too desist from making use of others
just like paper serviettes -- use them, soil them and dispose them. We
too therefore should not tread on other human beings' feelings and hurt
them.

Being HUMBLE means being -

Hopeful - Think of success, whatever your state in life and that the
obstacles that

you face can be overcome by Jesus and you together.

Understanding - This is very important in our day to day relationships
with others-by little helpful actions towards others, we will feel
satisfied and will find others understanding us better.

Mature -This is needed for us in our decision-making process in all
matters --

therefore we need to pray for wisdom and discernment.

Having Belief -That Jesus believes in us, even if we do not believe in
Him. Ask Jesus to help us in our endeavours, by believing in ourselves.

Lovable -That by total self-giving, love, kindness and selflessness to
others, we will surely be rewarded.

Emotionally Strong - That we must be strong enough to be positive with
Jesus' help to stay focussed on our goal even in despairing times.

This gift of humility of heart is far greater than all the earthly gifts
we possess or can possess. We can make anger, fear, ego, envy, jealousy,
hatred and other such emotions which are negative forces into positive
values, if we channel them to do the Sacred Heart's good work and our
self-esteem will have a great high. Please try this experience. I have
seen this work for many and will certainly work for you too -- because
WE are too precious in the eyes of GOD. If we are humble, changes will
take place in our lives automatically and we too will rise in life and
most importantly be happy in our minds and hearts.

****

Jayant Menezes

So long, farewell and thank you , Fr. Terence \...\...

By the time this issue hits the stands, Fr. Terence Murray would have
settled into his new position as Assistant Director, Diocesan
Catechetical Centre at the Pastoral Centre on the mount. And so he would
be just a stone's throw away from St. Andrew's.

Fr. Terence came to St. Andrew's on his very first pastoral posting as a
brand new Priest. We reminisce his early days in the parish. Boyish,
shy, with an impish grin, hardly fitting the traditional image of a
'*Padre*'. But four years down the line and what a transformation! What
emerged is a dynamic personality with a head brimming with ideas,
cheerful, full of fun and yet deeply spiritual. He was here, there and
everywhere helping to build God's Kingdom -- anointing the sick and the
dying, sorting out domestic problems, community activities, preaching
Retreats and Recollections, animating meetings and more meetings. But
his was not a lop-sided ministry. He was also present to share in the
joys of parishioners at family functions. He was a friend of the young
and the not so young and a 'darling' of our senior citizens. Wasn't it
he who organized a special Mass for them on the World Day of the Sick,
followed by breakfast and a sing-song? Always pro-active, helping the
poor and those in distress was his forte. Like the Good Shepherd he made
it his business to know his parishioners. He sought to make a difference
to their lives.

On behalf of the Andrean family, Andrean Notes thanks you Fr. Terence
and wishes you God's blessings on your pastoral endeavours.

 

.....and welcome Fr. Magi

We welcome Fr. Magi Murzello who takes up residence at St. Andrew's
after being Assistant at the parish of the Immaculate Conception,
Borivli. We can certainly look forward to some Magi(c) soon !

****

Editorial Team

Look out for more on Fr. Magi Murzello in the next issue of the Andrean
Notes. - Ed

My dear Parishioners,

The following words of St. Paul from 2 Cor. 2:1-4 is the most fitting
farewell message to you my dear parishioners. :

\"I have made up my mind not to come to you and make you sad but if I
were to make you sad who would be left to cheer me up? Only the very
persons I have made sad shall make me glad and therefore I write this
message with a greatly troubled and distressed heart and with many
tears; my purpose is not make you sad but to make you realise how much I
love you all\"

When I was posted at St. Andrew's three years ago, I wondered what I was
going in for. I had heard a lot about this parish and its parishioners,
everything good of course! I was not disappointed. In fact, dear
parishioners, I want to thank you for your warm welcome, your
encouragement, support and friendship. Thank you for walking into my
life and adding a riot of colours. We have worked together, planned
together and executed many a project with success. All because of your
commitment and co-operation. You have enriched my priesthood and my
ministry. If I am what I am today, it is because you helped me fulfil my
dreams and aspirations.

I would like to place on record my gratitude to Fr. Cleophas and his
Assistants with whom I spent my very first year of priesthood. This was
a launching pad for newer challenges for the next three years. I also
thank Fr. Peter Drego and team for their support. I must say, I have
enjoyed every moment with my parishioners at St. Andrew's.

I now leave St. Andrew's for a new assignment at the Diocesan Pastoral
Centre and I dare say, whatever I learnt here will be put to use in the
broader spectrum of the Diocesan Catechetical Centre.

Adieu !

****

Fr. Terence Murray

I'll say 'Yes' Lord

Of a humble background, stepping out of St. Pius Seminary in 1997, Fr.
Terence Murray entered the portals of St. Andrews Church on his 1st
assignment. The youngest of the team in our Parish, he moved on with a
goal, determined to achieve the tasks he had in mind, under the watchful
eye of his Spiritual Director, Fr. Cleophas Fernandes.

In his charming way, he's been there for one and all, no one who's
crossed his path would have experienced anything negative about him or
his attitude. Faithfully yet cheerfully attending sick calls at Holy
Family Hospital, comforting the distressed, counselling the youth, Fr.
Terence's vibrant presence has been felt everywhere. Taking charge of
the Liturgy team, Eucharistic Ministers, Altar Servers and Confirmation
classes only served to fortify his leadership abilities. The Youth were
only too happy to have him head their group -- he could relate and bond
with them on a one-to-one basis. His recent assignment of the 'Andrean
Mela' was indeed a super hit with his theme ' *A Communion of
Communities' --* truly bringing the Parish together. He had the Marathi
Sodality and Marathi speaking community 'under his spell' as he bridged
the communication gap with his opening line '*tumhe bare aahe, na?'* He
single-handedly masterminded and

orchestrated the Small Christian Community Rally for the Bandra Deanery,
which will go down in history as being one of its kind.

Three years ago, Fr. Terence gave 'appreciation' a new meaning when he
hit upon a novel idea of celebrating February 14 as Andrean Appreciation
Day. This brilliant concept has caught on with the neighbouring parishes
too. Fr. Terence's vision of \"uplifting the less fortunate in the
Parish is also one of my priorities\" came alive with his hands on
experience with the Andrean Social Service Centre. It's little wonder
then that his efforts of the last four years have not gone unnoticed.
Fr. Terence's climb up the hill as Assistant Director at the Diocesan
Catechetical Centre begins in June but the Andrean Family is just around
the corner with their best wishes and prayers supporting Fr. Terence to
move on to greater heights.

****

Sheila Pereira

Slide Show on the life of Christ

On the 24th of March, the Community of B.J. Road and Bullock Road (Z)
met at *Prarthanalaya* to pray the Way of the Cross. As a departure from
our usual walk down B.J. Road, this time we were shown slides on the
various stages of the life of Christ. The attendees were seated in small
groups of five, and after each set of slides, they discussed questions
based on Christ's mission, and how it related to each person's life. The
group discussions were quite animated and made us all think seriously
about our duties as Christians. This lasted for an hour and ended with a
commitment to reach out to our elderly and invalid neighbours, with
people volunteering to visit and care for them.

****

Anne Marie Rego

M&N Community

Easter Blessing Mass

April 18th was certainly a red-letter day for the members of the M&N
Community as Fr. Anthony celebrated the Easter blessing Mass on the
grounds of Peace Haven. This well-attended Mass was made more meaningful
as the Gospel was aptly enacted. Each family brought along a bottle of
water, which they poured, into a common vessel, thus signifying oneness
of our community. At the end of the Mass, Fr. Anthony blessed the water
and everybody then filled in their bottles for blessing their homes.

After the Mass we had a couple of games where the young and old took
part with great enthusiasm. Having built up an appetite, we soon settled
down to a delicious dinner. Whilst we tucked into some delicious
*biryani*, we heard, what seemed to us, strains of music from a
trombone. On a closer look, we were surprised to find that it was none
other than Mario creating music by blowing into a glass tumbler. He had
us fooled all right and what ingenuity!

It was a beautiful evening of community feeling where we met those who
had recently moved residence and thus become members of our community.

****

Maria Carvalho

 

Reaching out to our Retired Priests -- St. Paul Road (N) Community

On April 1, we, the members of St. Paul Road (N) community went on our
yearly visit to the Clergy Home. Besides being our regular community
visit for the last 12 years, each of us visits them off and on either to
offer Masses or share their loneliness. Some of the priests like to
reminiscence their golden years of wisdom and experience acquired after
being in numerous parishes, schools and communities. We had earlier
informed Sr. Helen of our scheduled visit and accordingly took some
homemade snacks for their tea break. We then visited the priests in
pairs and gifted each with a bath towel. We fondly remembered the late
Fr. Albert Borges who would play the keyboard or the Guitar while we
sang good old numbers which they all enjoyed.

Thanks to Cardinal Ivan Dias and his farsightedness, the Clergy Home has
a bright new look and a happy atmosphere. Fr. Tervor too needs to be
applauded on his good administration. Our ailing priests are well looked
after by four diligent nuns and nine dedicated houseboys.

We were happy to have met Bishops Winibald Menezes and Gilbert Rego as
also priests who were formerly at St. Andrew's -- Fr. Jonathan, Fr.
Blaise and Fr. Joaquim. The oldest of the lot, Fr. Vincent D'Souza, told
us he was 96 years old!

May God bless all these priests who have served selflessly. We hope and
pray that more would volunteer to visit them and show love and concern
in their twilight years.

****

Phil Fernandes

****

Community H

Pa-alam \[farewell\] Jojo -

In a recent circular, Bishop Bosco commended the core group members of
St. Teresa of Avila for cent percent attendance at their monthly
meetings. Well, what can we say?

3 years ago, a small group got together as the core group of this
community. Ably steered by Jojo, the group began to feel the 'pulse' of
our community, slowly but surely guiding them into a close knit family,
drawing them out of their homes to participate in reciting the
May/October rosary and the Way of the Cross in every building, with
members steadily growing over the years. Painting competitions for
kiddies in the holidays helped bring out their artistic skills. A few
months ago, guitar lessons were arranged for the musically inclined
teenagers who eagerly signed up. In April, a teenage girls camp was
organised to Palghar where a couple of naughty teenage boys joined at
the 11th hour, not wanting to miss the fun.

To get things organised in your area -- especially when all the others
around are doing so as well is no big deal. Think of spending a whole
day in the company of your friendly and not so friendly neighbours and
that's just what we did!! On April 22nd the community went on a picnic
to Gorai -- a busload of kiddies from age 4 to teenyboppers and silver
haired senior citizens of even 83 belted out songs from the 60s -- 90s
to Elia's untiring fingers at her Spanish guitar. The afternoon games
didn't give anyone a chance to sit back and relish Sylvie's sumptuous
lunch.

Our wonderful leader, Jojo, is going back to her homeland in the
Philippines. We will surely miss her and are grateful to her inspiration
and guidance that bonds our community today- we will certainly strive to
serve our community in the same selfless spirit keeping our fingers
crossed that she'll be back with us soon.

Sheila Pereira

Tax Planning and Proposed Changes in Labour Laws

 

The Young Christian Workers (YCW), St. Andrew's Unit, hosted a
two-pronged programme on Sunday May 13, consisting of two independent
talks on partly related subjects. The first on Tax Planning, which
concerns every tax-paying citizen on a personal level was followed by
one on the proposed changes in the existing Labour Laws in our country,
a subject of social significance. The twin purpose behind the choice of
subjects was to increase awareness among the people and to stimulate
them into thinking more deeply about current social and personal issues.

Mr. Christopher D'Souza, a reputed Chartered Accountant and former
lecturer of the Mumbai University delivered the first talk. With the aid
of an anecdote he brought home the truth that earning income without Tax
Planning is unwise; you never know how the Taxman will \"axe\" your
income. He went on to describe the cases of two individuals -- Tax Savvy
and Tax Ignoramus, and demonstrated with this example how a little
awareness and guidance can go a long way in saving one the blushes (and
some money as well!). In addition, he spoke on Capital Gains,
Indexation, Double Indexation, Gift Tax, and the \"Mother of Tax
Planning\" -- Mutual Funds. He warned that one should not try to evade
taxes, but should aim to reduce them legally by proper planning.

The talk was fast-paced due to the limitation of time, but it was laced
with humour to make it more absorbing. Mr. D'Souza ended by wishing the
public \"Many Happy Returns of your Income\" and exhorted them to take
the icing on the Income cake, leaving the Taxman with the crumbs (while
remaining well within the law!). One could see a good many in the
audience taking notes. Thanks to Mr. D'Souza we would soon have an
increase in the number of Tax Savvies and a decrease in the number of
Tax Ignoramuses!

A Q & A session and a short break for refreshments was followed by a
talk on the proposed changes in the Labour Laws by Fr. Lancy Pinto,
Asst. Director of Joseph Cardijn Technical Institute (Parel), Parish
Priest of Saki Naka Parish, and Chaplain of the YCW, who is very
involved in workers' issues. Fr. Lancy spoke at some length on the
proposed changes, and some of their possible implications. He briefly
outlined the history behind the current proposals, starting with the
Dunkel Draft of 1993-94. He then discussed the various Acts that are
sought to be amended, such as the Industrial Disputes Act, Contract
Labour Act, Trade Unions Act, Factories Act, etc. He elaborated on each
Act and what the proposed amendments for that Act were, followed by the
implications and possible fall-outs of the amendments, should they
become Law. This talk too was followed by a Q & A session, which drew
forth interesting discussions.

Mr. Adrian Rosario (President, YCW Mumbai) summed up the talk and
announced that many more programmes are slated to be conducted by the
YCW in the near future, including Career Guidance for students and on
the Voluntary / Compulsory Retirement Scheme.

The programme was attended by a sizeable number of people, not the least
distinguished of whom was His Lordship, Bishop Bosco Penha. It was
indeed a stimulating Sunday morning, **TAXING**, but well worth the
**LABOUR**!!

 

****

Bruno D'Silva

YCW, St. Andrew's Unit

 

Recollection Day for Senior Citizens

On 5th April, our senior citizens were privileged to have a Recollection
preached by Fr. Aniceto Pereira on the \"Blessing Cup\". To make the
Recollection more meaningful, the Blessing Cup was placed on the altar
and the refrain was \"The Cup we raise is the Blessing Cup\". It is the
Sacrifice of Christ's own Blood.

Fr. Aniceto started by referring to the Gospel of Mt. 20:20-25 where
John asks the question to Zebedee's sons, \"Can you drink the Cup that I
am going to drink?\" He gave a vivid explanation as to how the Cup is to
be drunk. Before drinking, it is necessary that one looks inward and
reflects on his life to find out how useful it is. In other words, we
understand what and why everything happens around us. Father stressed on
certain characteristics of personality, which are very necessary.
Courage, to help us become aware of suffering so that we can help others
to endure suffering with joy and to move from ritual to worship. The
greatest challenge is the Way of the Cross. Father also stressed the
intimacy that Jesus had with his disciples. In Lk.22:19-20, he asks his
disciples to drink the Cup in his name, i.e. his mindset. Jesus drank
the cup to the last dredge, loving his enemies. We too must savour the
cup, drink it slowly and rise above it, sharing and caring without any
boundaries. The world teaches that the more one does the better one can
be. But Jesus says \"Reflect and understand\".

Lastly, Father spoke on the Synod, which is a call to help us discern
what God wants of us. We know that the Cup stands for victory. Hence,
drinking the Cup without hesitation will bring us victory through
Christ.

It was a very fruitful Recollection indeed! There was plenty of food for
thought for all senior citizens. We are grateful to Fr. Aniceto for
spending time with us and making the Recollection a very meaningful one.

****

Vilma D'Cruz

 

Talk on Alzheimer's Disease for Senior Citizens

It was very heartening to see senior citizens, some with graying hair,
others with baldpates ambling and still others wobbling their way to the
College Chapel for a special Mass on Saturday, 24th March. This Mass was
followed by a very enlightening talk by Prof. Dilip Panniker, Clinical
Psychologist and Psychotherapist attached to the Alzheimer's Disease
department of Holy Family Hospital.

Addressing the ageing audience, Prof. Panniker explained that
Alzheimer's disease, though always existed, had not, until recently,
been identified as such and given a name. Therefore the older generation
had never heard about it. Alzheimer's is a form of dementia or
deterioration of the brain and its functions, affecting people after 60.
It involves the loss of memory, which could aggravate with the passage
of time. The affected individual may forget names of common objects,
daily routine, forget who he/she is, the closest family members and even
the way home, if left alone.

Prof. Panniker said that the medical profession had yet a lot to learn
about this ailment and its treatment. To a certain extent Alzheimer's
disease is hereditary. Patients suffering from this disease need
continuous attention, as there is no saying what they could do when.
They could even turn violent. This could be very depressing for the
family members.

However, we in Bandra are lucky as help is at hand. Prof. Panniker could
be contacted on any Monday between 1.30 and 3 in the afternoon at the
OPD of the Holy Family Hospital.

After the talk, light refreshments were served. Many sought
clarifications and asked questions about Alzheimer's, which Prof.
Panniker ably answered.

****

Vernon Rosario

Freedom

\"Show me your good work and I'll see your faith\" (James 2 : 18)

Many say this and for good work they wait. (Ephesian 2:8-10)

Some went out to wash those they thought were unclean, (Isiah 64:6)

With water and towel they were publicly seen.

\"Some unclean refused to be washed\" as they say.

Have they the right and freedom to stay that way?

 

Along many waysides are seen many poor, (Mark 14:7)

In tatters and ragbags they move door to door.

Some say, \"My faith is to live on charity.

I wish to live that way. That's the way for me.\"

 

Freedom abused! \"I go my way and stay.

I do not need your Truth, Life and The Way.\" (John 14:6)

****

B. V. Fernandes

Oops! We Goofed!

 

The article \"A Tribute to Damian Pereira\"

which appeared in the March issue of Andrean Notes was sent in by Mrs.
Juliette Fialho. We regret the error.

Ed.

The Y Files - Contd. from page 7\...\...

Don't you like Clean & Green?!

If we do not wake up now -- it will definitely be too late....the
financial nerve centre of India...Mumbai is soon to be the most polluted
city in the country.....alarmed??

There is every reason to be. The city's air is nothing but
pollutants...smog, fumes, grime...an assault on the senses. Fresh, clean
air, it seems is a luxury. And we have to work hard to restore this
necessity of life.

On May 6, 2001 at 6.15 p.m. a play titled \"WHOSE MUMBAI IS IT ANYWAY\"
was staged at the Art Court on the Bandstand 'Back to Nature' Promenade.
This play was performed by \"Clean Air Island\" an environmental NGO in
the city who have been active partners with the BMC and other
governmental agencies, currently engaged in the ongoing zero-garbage
pilot project. Clean Air Island have performed over a hundred times all
over Mumbai in the last several months.

The ever-increasing denigration of Mother Earth calls for serious
action, action that demands individual responsibility and hence the
members of the Parish especially the youth should work towards
environmental sustainability and I therefore request everyone to sort
their household wastes into wet and dry, with the eventual goal of
making the area a zero-garbage area. As citizens of this country, with a
strong consciousness of environment and community, we must not lag
behind the progressive thinking which is now being accepted all over the
world as inevitable and inescapable, namely that of working in
partnership with nature and not against it is the only road ahead. As
5th June is World Environment Day let us work harder to keep our area
clean and safe as we youth are going to inherit everything, we should
not litter or spit in public places.

REDUCING, REUSING AND RECYCLING is the only way in which we can live in
harmony with nature and contribute to preserving the earth's resources
in the interest of the coming generations. Dry garbage can be given to
our sweeper who will in turn sell it to the *ruddiwalla* and earn some
money. The wet garbage again can be classified into 2 parts: pre-cooked
which can be used for making compost -- which is excellent and natural
food for our plants and the cooked food etc., which is thrown away can
be handed over to the BMC -- the Corporation is working on turning this
waste into power.

If we all start working hard in this direction -- our city will be rid
of pollutants to a certain extent since waste gives out a lot of toxic
gases. Our city will have a new look -- CLEAN, GREEN AND BEAUTIFUL.

****

\- Alison D'Souza

AYM Diary - 2001 (Andrean Youth Movement)

April 17th -- Fun Cricket

A Fun Cricket tournament was organized from 10:00 am to 1:00 pm on St.
Andrew's school grounds. This tournament was open only to the members of
the A.Y.M. The A.Y.M members that were present were divided into two
teams. The two teams competed in an under arm and over arm match on the
tar and mud grounds respectively. All those who participated found it to
be a fun-filled experience.

April 18

th - Spiritual Talk

The meeting started at 6:00pm. Mr. Larry Vincent conducted the talk. His
talk was divided into 4 parts. The first part was a brief introduction
of himself and his present life. In the second part he spoke about his
past life and his addiction to many vices, his behavior and so on and
the impact of a retreat which changed his life completely, and in the
third part he very beautifully related the Bible to our everyday lives.
In the fourth part he presented a questionnaire prepared by him. Mr.
Vincent answered all our doubts and made us realize how the answers to
each and every one of our problems lie in the Bible. It was a great talk
and really helped each one of us present to reflect on our past and
change for the better in the future.

 

April 21

st - Throw/Volley ball

We organized a fun throw/volleyball tournament, which was open to the
members of the A.Y.M. It was held from 10:00 am to 1:00 pm on St.
Andrew's School grounds. This game requires the girls to play throwball
and the boys to play volleyball simultaneously. For many this was a new
game. All new members got a chance to mix around and know each other
better.

 

April 22

nd -- Team Building.

The meeting on April 22nd was presided over by Vinay Gonsalves. The
theme of the meeting was team building and it was divided into 2 parts.
The first part being a reflection and the second part a game. Vinay very
correctly compared the functioning of the human body with the different
parts/roles that we play in the A.Y.M; just as the human body works in
co-ordination with its different parts in the same way the AYM also
works with the union of its members. The game divided us into 4 teams --
each consisting of 7 members. The main aim of the game was to work in a
united manner to find a solution and play the game faster.

May 7

th -- Ek Minute Games

The games were held on St. Andrew's basketball court. It was held for
parishioners and AYM members. There were about 6 teams that
participated. It took a lot of effort to organize and execute it well.
All games were of 1-minute duration. The teams enjoyed playing the games
like eating bananas, smashing balloons etc. The winners of Team A
comprised of Clifford, Joshua, Rofina, Mitchelle, Nerissa, Brian and
Niren.

May 11

th -- T.T. Tournament

The TT tournament was organized by the members of the AYM -- this
tournament was open to members as well as parishioners. The tournament
was divided into 5 categories: 1) Boys Singles -- in which 14 boys
participated and Ravi Pillai won.2) Girls Singles -- in which 14 girls
participated and Martina Fernandes won. 3) Girls Doubles --in which 3
pairs participated -- Martina Fernandes and Elizabeth Pereira emerged as
winners.4)Boys Doubles -- in which 5 pairs participated -- Winners were
Ravi and Calvin. 5) Mixed Doubles -- in which 4 pairs participated --
Martina and Davis won.

May 12

th -- Basketball Tournament

We, the AYM members organized a basketball tournament for the
parishioners and the members of the AYM. This tournament was held on St.
Andrew's basketball court. We started the basketball tournament at 10.00
am and continued till 5.00 pm. Nine teams from the Parish participated.
There were 3 rounds. The 1st and 2nd rounds consisted of eliminations.
The third round was the semi final round played by 3 teams. The teams
that won entered the finals to compete with each other.

The evening came to an end with the team \" Dog Pound\" defeating
\"Flying Fish\" -- 17:11. Cash prizes were awarded to both the teams --
it was a very hot and sunny day but very exciting and an enjoyable one
too.

May 13

th -- Treasure Hunt

This tournament was open to the AYM members as well as parishioners.
There were 8 teams in all that participated. The clues were hidden in
various buildings that belonged to the Parish. Buildings from both North
and South were selected -- so the teams were running helter-skelter in
the heat of the sun to get the clues and ultimately reach the treasure.
Some of the youth went around on their cycles and bikes to monitor the
Hunt.

There were cash prizes for the teams that stood 1st and 2nd.

The first place was won by: 1) Norysca Netto 2) Arnold D'Sylva 3) Joanne
D'Sylva 4) Tyron Pereira 5) Jurgen Pereira & 6) Joshua D'Abreo.

****

Vennessa Netto, Elizabeth Pereira and Diana Joseph

****

 

MILESTONES

Baptisms

Name of Parents, Name of Child, Baptized on

William & Iwinca Fernandes Conrad Dominic Anthony 17.3.2001

Timothy & Maria Lisa Ann Iijima John Paul 21.3.2001

Clayton & Felicia Dharmai Carlyn Clayton Jude 31.3.2001

Shann & Sybil Houran Nikhail Francis 01.4.2001

Ashlyn & Lina Pinto Mylene Rochelle Joan 01.4.2001

Yomesh & Michelle Doshi Tanya Rachel 01.4.2001

Allan & Sheila D'Souza Serena Joann 01.4.2001

Arun Charles & Beena M. Fernandes Hriday Charles 01.4.2001

Krishna & Parvati Iyer Rajan Anthony 15.4.2001

Andre & Brenda D'Costa Rohan Paul 15.4.2001

Romir & Rekha Baptista Rishabh Clement 15.4.2001

Paul & Mary Rana Stefan Jauslin 15.4.2001

 

Marriages

Name of Couple, Married on

Irwin Joseph Sequeira & Tanya Terry Drego 22.4.2001

Vikas Ramchandra More & Milla Ferreira 05.5.2001

Allan Anthony Howard Soares & Melissa Janice Conceicao 07.5.2001

Vishal Kakar & Zeenia Antoinette Monteiro 11.5.2001

Sanjay Ignatius Serrao & Cheryl Carol Mascarenhas 12.5.2001

 

Deaths

Name of Deceased,  Aged,    Died on

Ancilla Cardoz   49 yrs.  24.3.2001

Joseph F. Sequeira 86 yrs. 14.4.2001

Queenie Lobo 71 yrs. 13.4.2001

Derrick Menezes 26 yrs. 14.4.2001

Ita Farrier 83 yrs. 21.2.2001

Maureen Crasto 75 yrs. 23.4.2001

John Collaso 56 yrs. 24.4.2001

Cleytus B. J. Coelho 50 yrs. 02.5.2001

James Martin 70 yrs. 06.5.2001

Melvina Lewis 56 yrs. 13.5.2001

Orlando Mattos 45 yrs. 16.5.2001

Stella Helen Martis 64yrs. 17.5.2001

[Back to the St Andrew\'s Home Page](index.htm)
