**[Back To St Andrew Home Page](indexStAndrew.htm)** 

 

 

![](../images/births.jpg){border="0" width="285" height="23"}

 

 

![](../images/Picregis_copy.jpg){border="0" width="239" height="192"}

![](../images/santanna2.gif){border="0" width="300" height="176"}

## Registry Records

The Church registry records in St Andrew date back to the late 1600\'s.
The earliest  register available is actually the last register used at
the Church of Santa Anna. This was transferred to St Andrew\'s when St
Anne\'s was blown up in 1739.

The early records are in Portuguese painstakingly entered in
calligraphic script on paper that today is crumbling. In the last decade
concerned volunteers have initiated an ongoing project to have the
records translated and transferred onto disk in order to preserve the
information contained in the Church records. There are also plans to
photograph each individual page of the earliest records before they
deteriorate further.

### Details regarding the first register preserved in the Church

This register (Volume 1) pertains to Portuguese Bandra and was
originally at the church of Santa Anna. The baptisms commence from
December 1715 and end in March 1737 when the church of Santa Anna was
closed, in July 1737 following the Maratha invasion of Salsette
(April1737) and the ensuing seige of Bandra. A British garrison of
around 50 men occupied the Jesuit residence at that time. Baptisms after
July 1737 were performed at the Church of St Andrew which remained the
only functioning parish church in Bandra. It appears that this first
register was brought to St Andrew\'s following the closure of Santa
Anna.The baptismal register gives the dates of baptism but not the birth
date. The vicars are all Jesuits. Some secular priests are mentioned in
the register- termed \'clerigo\', they lived in private houses and
functioned as directed by the vicar. Professions are frequently
mentioned. All entries are signed by the vicar or by the baptising
priest. Secular priests based in Mahim (British territory) are
occasionally mentioned as baptising.

### Baptismal Registers of St Andrew

No corresponding register of St Andrew\'s of the Portuguese days exists.
Volume 2 records  baptisms performed between 1st June 1749 and end 1756.
It contains baprism performed in one unified parish. The latter part of
this volume contains affadivits of baptisms performed between 1738 and
1756. This is a result of the original baptism entries being lost.

Volume 3 is a baptism register with entries from 1778 to 1799. This
register covers the British period in Bandra (the British occupied
Bandra in the second half of December 1774). All priests mentioned in
the registers 2 and 3 are native secular priests.

The fourth volume of baptismal entires has numbered baptisms. It
commences from 1800. It is clear from the numbering that leaves
containing entries are missing for the years 1800 and 1801.

For the year 1884 no baptismal enties are found after August 11 till the
end of the year.

The baptismal entires have been written in Portuguese. This is the case
till 1915. Thereafter the entires are in English.

### Marriages

Marriages commence with the year 1750 starting with affadivits. The
first three volumes are chronologically in great disorder. Broadly, they
cover the period from 1750 till May 1802.

The fourth volume commences July 28 1805 and ends on 15 August 1829.
Hence it is clear that mariage entries for the period 1802 (9 May) till
28 July 1805 are missing.

The fifth volume commences with the year 1888. Entries for the period
Sept 1829 till the end of 1887 are missing. Likewise missing is a volume
for the period April 1909 to August 1915.

Marriage registers up to the first half of 1915 are in Portuguese and
after that in English. It is only in 1888 that provision was made for
the ages and signatures of the bridal couple. Previously there were
signatures only of the vicar and witnesses  frequently stating their
ages and villages.

### Burials

These registers commence in 1853. Entries fo the year 1861 start in
March and end in November. No burials for the years 1862 to 1866 are
found. Burials for 1868 exist and also for two months in 1869.
Thereafter there is a gap till the end of 1887.

In 1888 the registers resume (in Portuguese) and end in the second half
of 1915.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
